Walter is recording a farewell to his family
In the New Mexico desert, a man wearing nothing but his underwear and a gas mask erratically drives an RV down a desolate dirt road. In the passenger seat, another man is passed out, also wearing a gas mask. In the back of the RV are two bodies. After crashing the RV in a ditch, the driver climbs out, dons a shirt hanging from the side view mirror, and retrieves a camcorder and gun from the vehicle. Recording a message on the camcorder, the man identifies himself as Walter White and bids a cryptic farewell to his wife and son. Sirens are heard in the distance. Walt walks onto the road and awaits the apparent approach of police, gun in hand.
Veggie bacon for Walt's 50th birthday
Three weeks earlier, it is Walt's 50th birthday. Inside his modest suburban home in Albuquerque, Walt wakes up before dawn and exercises while contemplating a plaque on his wall commemorating his contributions to research that won a Nobel Prize in Chemistry. At breakfast, his pregnant wife, Skyler, hands him a plate of eggs topped by veggie bacon spelling out "50". They banter with their son, Walt Jr., who has cerebral palsy. Afterwards, Walt drops off Junior at J. P. Wynne High School, where he also works as a chemistry teacher. In class, he explains to his apathetic students how he regards chemistry as the study of change as well as matter.
After school, Walt performs his second job at a car wash, where he finds himself wiping down the convertible of a disrespectful student. Returning home, he discovers that Skyler has organized a surprise birthday party for him. Among the guests is Walt's gregarious brother-in-law, Hank Schrader, a DEA agent. Coincidentally, Hank is the subject of a local news report covering a methamphetamine lab bust. Walt is impressed with the amount of money recovered from the dealers, and Hank discloses that he confiscated $700,000. Hank then invites Walt to accompany him on another bust as a ride-along. Meanwhile, Skyler talks to her sister Marie, Hank's wife, about her pregnancy.
Walt is given his diagnosis
While working at the car wash the following day, Walt suddenly collapses and is taken away by ambulance. At the hospital, a doctor informs a detached Walt that he has inoperable lung cancer and has a couple of more years to live at best. Upon returning to the car wash, Walt becomes angry when his boss, Bogdan, asks him to wipe down cars again. He screams obscenities at Bogdan as he storms out of the car wash.
Taking up Hank's offer, Walt accompanies him to a bust along with his partner, Steven Gomez. While Hank and Gomez raid a meth lab belonging to local dealer known as "Cap'n Cook", Walt waits outside in their SUV. There, he unexpectedly spots a former student named Jesse Pinkman escaping through the window of a neighboring house. As Jesse flees the scene, Walt realizes that he is the dealer whom Hank and Gomez are trying to catch. Later that night, Walt visits Jesse's house and blackmails him into letting him become a partner in his meth operation, with Walt offering his knowledge in chemistry in exchange for Jesse's knowledge in drug dealing.
Walt stealing equipment from school
The following day, Walt steals boxes full of chemistry equipment from the high school, while Jesse arranges to buy a used RV that will be used as the duo's mobile meth lab. Upon driving into the desert, Walt strips down to his underwear (so as not to contaminate his clothes with chemical odors) and cooks his first batch of methamphetamine. Jesse is astonished with the chemical purity of the product Walt has produced.
Jesse takes a sample of Walt's meth to Krazy-8, a mid-level drug distributor who happens to be the cousin of Jesse's partner, Emilio Koyama. Emilio, who was arrested in Hank's bust and is now out on bail, believes that Jesse ratted him out. The three then drive out to the RV, where Krazy-8 asks Walt if he wants to switch allegiances. Before he can answer, Emilio recognizes Walt from the bust and begins threatening him. Jesse tries to flee but trips and knocks himself out on a rock. Walt barters for his life by promising to reveal his meth formula.
Emilio ties up Jesse, then joins Krazy-8 in watching Walt cook. As Walt prepares the ingredients, Emilio absent-mindedly throws a cigarette out the window, starting a brush fire. Inside, Walt mixes chemicals that produce a deadly vapor before he dashes out of the RV. Krazy-8 and Emilio begin firing bullets through the door of the RV over Walt's head but are eventually overcome by the fumes. Walt unties Jesse, puts a gas mask on him, and props him in the passenger seat before making his attempt to escape in the opening scene.
Krazy-8 offering Walt money
With the sound of sirens closing in, Walt tries to shoot himself only to find that the gun's safety is on. However, he soon realizes that the sirens he is hearing are not coming from police cars, but from fire trucks responding to the brush fire. Walt hides the gun in the back of his underwear while Jesse, sporting a black eye, regains consciousness and comes out to join him. Walt's first day as a meth cook leaves him spent, shaken, but also invigorated. Returning home, he meets Skyler's troubled queries with atypical sexual aggression which leaves her stunned.
The whole series starts on Walt's 50th birthday, the date for which was September 7th, 2008. On that day it was Sunday, however, no explanation is given on why Walter and his son visited the school on the weekends.
After having rough sex with Skyler, Walt gets up to wash up in the bathroom. He looks at himself in the mirror. The scene shifts to twelve hours before, as a pants-less Walt and a black-eyed Jesse hire a truck driver to pull the RV out of the ditch. Afterwards, the two agree to end their criminal partnership as soon as they deal with the bodies of Emilio and Krazy-8. However, as Walt finally gets the engine of the RV to turn over, a sound alerts them to the fact that one of the "dead" men isn't dead.
The following morning, Walt wakes up naked on his bathroom floor. His breakfast with his family is interrupted when Jesse calls his house posing as a telemarketer. When Walt finds privacy, Jesse demands that he help out in dealing with Krazy-8 and disposing of Emilio's body. Walt says that he can't come until after work. After he leaves for school, Skyler hits redial and hears Jesse's profane voicemail message, revealing to her that Walt was not talking to a telemarketer.
At school, an anxious Walt mishears a student asking about the "murder" instead of the "midterm". After class, he raids the chemistry supply closet for hydrofluoric acid. Meanwhile, Jesse hears more noise coming from the RV. When he looks out his window, he's stunned to see the vehicle's door wide open and Krazy-8 nowhere to be found.
Krazy 8 walking down the street
Driving to Jesse's house in his Pontiac Aztek, Walt encounters an injured Krazy-8 stumbling down the middle of a suburban street. Walt waves him toward the car, but Krazy-8 recognizes his voice and tries to escape, only to knock himself out when he runs directly into a tree. Walt throws the unconscious drug dealer into his car.
Jesse with the plastic containers
At the White residence, Skyler conducts a web search and finds one of Jesse's social media profiles. Meanwhile, Walt brings the unconscious Krazy-8 back to Jesse's house, where they take him into the basement and secure him to a pole with a bicycle lock around his neck. Walt and Jesse then argue about what to do next. Their first priority is to dispose of Emilio's body and destroy the evidence, with Walt suggesting that they use hydrochloric acid to perform the task. They also agree that Krazy-8 can't be left alive, tossing a coin to see who will kill him. Jesse wins the toss and chooses to dispose of Emilio's body, thus it falls upon Walt to kill Krazy-8. Walt instructs Jesse to buy a specific plastic bin so that the body can be properly disposed. However, upon visiting a home supply store, an impatient Jesse can't find a bin that's big enough for the body.
At Jesse's house, Walt, reluctant to kill Krazy-8, ends up serving him a sandwich and providing makeshift toiletries instead. In order to relieve his stress, he smokes Jesse's marijuana. Jesse returns home and asks Walt how the murder went. Walt promises to take care of Krazy-8 tomorrow, then leaves to meet Skyler at a hospital for her sonogram. There, the couple learn that they are expecting a girl. Afterward, Skyler confronts Walt about his association with Jesse. In an attempt to hide the truth, Walt falsely confesses that Jesse is his pot dealer and, frustrated by her complaints, asks her to "climb out of my ass".
Jesse is confronted by Skyler.
Walt struggles to keep his secrets in check at work while Jesse retrieves Emilio's body from the RV. As he is dragging the body across the driveway, Skyler appears at his front gate. Jesse quickly positions himself so that she can't see the body. Skyler tells Jesse that her brother-in-law is a DEA agent and warns Jesse to stop selling pot to her husband. After she leaves, Jesse hauls Emilio's body up to his second-floor bathroom and, donning a gas mask, tries to dissolve the body in the bathtub with the hydrofluoric acid.
Jesse learns the hard way.
When Walt returns to the house, Jesse informs him of Skyler's visit and that he dissolved Emilio's body in the bathtub without having to buy the plastic bin. In horror, Walt hurries into the hallway beneath the upstairs bathroom. Sizzling liquid can be seen seeping from the ceiling through the floor. Suddenly, the ceiling collapses followed by a cascade of gore, a mixture of hydrofluoric acid and Emilio's half-dissolved remains. Walt turns to Jesse and states the reason he asked for a plastic container: hydrofluoric acid eats through most materials except plastic. In the basement, Krazy-8 eyes a growing puddle of acidic fluid dripping onto the basement floor. Meanwhile, out in the desert, two Native American children find Walt's discarded gas mask.
Despite Krazy-8 offering Walt his money in sealed plastic bag in "Pilot", it is now in a brown paper bag which caused it to get wet from the spilled chemicals in the RV although the money getting wet explains why Walt removed it from a dryer at the end of "Pilot."
When Walt confronts Jesse in the bathroom about him telling Krazy-8 about Walt's name and his son, Jesse accidentally knocks over a painting making it shatter to the ground. But one shot later, the shattered painting on the floor somehow disappears and reappears multiple times (both on the floor and on the wall).

As he is helping Jesse to scrub up the dissolved remains of Emilio, Walt flashes back to his days as a graduate student. In a college classroom, Walt and a female lab partner are analyzing the human body's chemical composition. After discovering that only 99 percent of the body's makeup is accounted for chemically, Walt muses that there has to be more to a human being than that. Back in the present, Walt flushes a bloody bucketful down the toilet.
At the White residence, Skyler and Junior are painting the new baby's room as Marie looks on. Junior's cell phone rings and he departs. Having been told by Walt that he has been smoking marijuana, Skyler tells her sister that she's writing a story with a stoner character and asks her about pot. Marie jumps to the conclusion that it's Junior who is smoking marijuana and doesn't believe Skyler when she tries to insist otherwise.
Walt and Jesse scuffle over a bag of meth.
At Jesse's house, Jesse sneaks into the bathroom to smoke meth. In the basement, Krazy-8, who remains shackled to the pipe, startles Walt by addressing him by name and revealing personal details that Jesse has apparently told him. Walt angrily goes upstairs to confront Jesse, who is high and refuses to let him enter the bathroom, and breaks down the door. A scuffle ensues over Jesse's bag of meth, which he tosses out the window. Walt has a coughing fit while trying to chase Jesse downstairs, and barely recovers in time to catch Jesse before he drives off in his car. Walt says there's more work to do, but Jesse leaves.
Marie phones Hank in the middle of a drug bust, convinced that he needs to scare Junior straight. While initially reluctant, Hank drives Junior to "The Crystal Palace," a local roach motel patronized by meth addicts and prostitutes. Hank warns Junior that marijuana is a gateway to heavier drugs, trying to prove his point by calling over a disheveled prostitute, Wendy, and showing Junior how meth has corroded her teeth. Disgusted, Hank threatens to bust Wendy if he sees her working there again. Wendy stumbles off and enters a motel room, where she has sex with Jesse.
Back at Jesse's house, Walt jots down the pros and cons of killing Krazy-8. He comes up with several arguments in support of clemency, while the sole entry in the "Kill Him" column is: "He'll kill your entire family if you let him go." Walt calls Skyler to claim he is running late at the car wash, but learns that she already knows he has been fired from that job. Skyler angrily tells Walt to spend the night wherever he is. He makes a sandwich for Krazy-8 but collapses on the basement floor while delivering it, shattering the plate.
After regaining consciousness, Walt tells Krazy-8 that he has lung cancer, scoops up the plate shards, and leaves to make another sandwich. Upon returning, he tries to get to know Krazy-8, who tells Walt that doing so won't make killing him any easier. Walt admits that he is looking for a reason not to. The two seem to bond as Krazy-8 reminisces about being the son of a local furniture-store owner whose commercials air on late-night television. Walt recalls buying a crib for Junior from the same store. When Walt admits that he hasn't told his family about the cancer diagnosis, Krazy-8 deduces that Walt is cooking meth so he can leave money for his family. Krazy-8 offers to write Walt a check, then suggests he isn't cut out for murder. When Walt leaves to retrieve the key to the bike lock, Krazy-8 seems relieved.
Walt gets the key, but a sudden flash of insight prompts him to piece the broken plate back together; he realizes a large knife-shaped shard is missing. Back downstairs, Krazy-8 stands quietly as Walt approaches and motions his hostage to turn around so he can slip the key into the lock. When Walt hesitates, Krazy-8 gently commands him to unlock it. As he grasps the lock, Walt asks if Krazy-8 is going stab him with the shard once set free. Krazy-8 stabs backward wildly while Walt pulls back hard on the lock, strangling him. Krazy-8 manages to stab Walt in the leg before finally expiring. Walt tearfully apologizes as he dies.
The following morning, Jesse returns home to find Krazy-8 missing from the basement and the bike lock left behind. Meanwhile, the DEA discover Walt and Jesse's cook site in the desert. Hank and Gomez quickly put together a theory that a mobile meth lab caught fire and that the occupants sped off after putting it out. However, Krazy-8's low-rider car has been left behind. Hank wonders why until he discovers meth hidden behind the stereo. Meanwhile, Walt parks his Pontiac Aztek on the shoulder of a freeway overpass, resuming his flashback to discussing human chemistry with his lab partner. Returning home, he finds Skyler sobbing in their bedroom. He informs her that there is something he has to tell her, alluding to his lung cancer diagnosis.
During a meeting the DEA's Albuquerque field office, Hank puts his team on notice that "new players" are producing a super-pure type of methamphetamine, describing the criminals as possessing a high skill set. The scene then cuts to Walt, standing at his bathroom mirror in his underwear, messily brushing his teeth.
Walt and his family discusses his situation.
Walt, Hank, Skyler, Marie, and Junior have a barbecue at the White residence. Walt reminisces about the first time he met Skyler, which causes her to burst into tears and run inside the house. When Marie asks Walt what is wrong, he tells the rest of the family about his cancer diagnosis. Junior, Hank and Marie are shocked at the news. Skyler blames chemicals from Walt's past lab work for the cancer, Marie proposes an oncology treatment plan, and Hank assures Walt that he will take care of his family if the worst comes to pass.
Meanwhile, Jesse is hanging at his house with two friends, Combo and Skinny Pete. Jesse brags about cooking a great batch of meth but only offers them marijuana, saying he's trying to lay off the meth because it's making him paranoid. When they get up to leave, Jesse says he is just joking and pulls a bag out of his pocket. The next morning, Jesse peers through parted curtains at the street outside and, under meth-induced hallucinations, mistakes two Mormon missionaries as a pair of threatening bikers. Jesse escapes out the back door.
Skyler makes an appointment for Walt to visit a top-rated oncologist. Walt initially balks at paying a $5,000 deposit on the treatment but eventually relents, saying he'll borrow the money from his pension. Instead, he retrieves some drug money he has hidden in a heating duct inside his house. Walt pretends he's checking for mice when Junior interrupts him, confused by Walt acting as if nothing is going on.
While Walt is visiting his credit union, a man in a BMW convertible — his license plate reading "KEN WINS" — swipes his parking space while loudly talking into his Bluetooth earpiece. Inside the credit union, Walt presents a teller a wad of cash and asks for a cashier's check made out to the oncology partnership. While he waits in line, Ken loudly continues his conversation.
That night, a mother, father, and a well-dressed preteen boy are eating dinner in their home when they hear a noise outside. They investigate and discover Jesse with one foot stuck in their patio furniture. They reluctantly allow Jesse to sleep at their house. When he awakes the next evening, the mother and father — revealed to be Jesse's parents — reluctantly decide to let Jesse stay with them on condition that he attend support group meetings concerning his drug use. However, Jesse's mother frets about his effect on the younger boy, Jesse's little brother Jake. Jesse's father says they must lay down the law and be consistent about it this time.
At the high school, Junior sits peering into a microscope in his father's empty chemistry classroom. After a long pause, Walt, who is grading papers, tells his son that things have a way of working themselves out. Junior doesn't reply.
Back at the Pinkman residence, Jesse visits Jake's bedroom and looks at his educational award. He congratulates Jake but advises that "not all learning comes out of books." Jesse asserts that Jake is their favorite son, but Jake tells him that it is Jesse who their parents always talk about.
Alone in his former bedroom, Jesse comes across a chemistry paper from high school that Walt had graded with an "F", along with a caricature drawn on the back mocking the teacher. As he sees this, Combo calls and says Jesse has got customers for his new meth product. Jesse heads over to Walt's house to tell him the news, but Walt is instead angry that Jesse has come to the house to talk business and accuses Jesse of wearing a wire. Walt orders him to leave. Before Jesse does, he leaves $4,000 that their customers have paid for the meth.
Walt's new oncologist, Dr. Delcavoli, tells him and Skyler that his cancer is at Stage 3A, meaning it has spread from his lung to his lymph nodes. Skyler asks if it's curable; Dr. Delcavoli prefers the word treatable. Walt asks about side effects, but zones out as the oncologist describes them.
Jesse being kicked out of his parents' house again.
Meanwhile, a maid dusting Jesse's room finds a marijuana joint, resulting in his parents asking him to leave the house. Jesse picks up the joint and walks away. As he waits for a taxicab outside, Jake comes to say goodbye and asks Jesse to give him back the joint. Jesse instead throws it away, telling Jake it's skunk-weed before driving away.
Skyler asks Walt if he can start his treatment the following week, but Walt expresses reluctance to commit to $90,000 worth of treatment that might not work and could leave them broke. Annoyed at his father giving up so easily, Junior tells him to just give up and die.
While driving around the city, Walt pulls into a gas station and has a powerful coughing fit, one where he hacks up blood. Walt sees Ken pull up in his BMW, again talking loudly into his earpiece. While Ken is inside the gas station, Walt picks up a squeegee, lifts the hood of the BMW, and lays the squeegee between the battery terminals, prompting an electrical short. As he walks back to his own car, the BMW bursts into flames.
Donning a jacket and tie, Jesse interviews for a job at a realty office but bails upon discovering that the job requires him to wear a full-body costume advertising their services. He comes across an old friend, Badger, wearing the costume, and they smoke marijuana together in an alley. Jesse says he's thinking of retiring from the drug business. Badger offers to partner up if he ever gets back in.
Walt and Skyler attend a birthday party for Elliott Schwartz, Walt's friend from graduate school and his former business partner. Also at the party is Elliott's wife, Gretchen, Walt's former lab partner. At the party, Walt views a framed Scientific American cover story about Elliott's company, Gray Matter Technologies, and meets some of Elliott's colleagues. When asked which university he teaches at, Walt hesitates to answer. He and Skyler are embarrassed when their birthday present of ramen pales in comparison to the gifts of the more well-heeled guests.
Elliot with a package of ramen.
Later, while reminiscing about old times, Elliott offers Walt a job at Gray Matter. When Walt declines, Elliott assures him the company has excellent health insurance. Walt is upset as he and Skyler leave the party, annoyed that she told Elliott about his cancer diagnosis and accusing her of putting him up to paying for his treatments.
Jesse and Badger in the RV.
Over breakfast the next morning, Walt and Skyler silently glare at each other. Meanwhile, Jesse shows Badger the RV, and the two head out to the desert to make meth. Badger clowns around while Jesse cooks. However, Jesse is dissatisfied with the poor quality of the meth he cooks.
On a weekend evening, Junior and two friends stand outside a convenience store waiting for a likely prospect to buy them beer. The friends bolt when a guy that Junior approaches turns out to be an off-duty cop. Junior is let off with a warning upon being vouched for by Hank, who then admonishes Junior for contacting him instead of his father. Hank takes Junior home and theorizes to Skyler and Marie that he is acting out because of Walt's illness. Confused by Hank's comments, Skyler clears up the confusion from an earlier conversation with Marie, revealing that it was Walt, not Junior, who has been smoking pot. Skyler remains baffled by Walt's decision not to get treatment, despite it being completely paid for. She suggests they sit Walt down so everyone in the family can voice their concerns.
Skyler and the "talking pillow".
When he returns home, Walt is met by the rest of the family in the living room. Skyler says that she can't understand why Walt is refusing treatment, then makes the other members of the family say their piece as they hold a "talking pillow". Hank tries to use sports metaphors to describe Walt's cancer while Junior calls his father a "pussy" for refusing treatment while he's dealt with cerebral palsy all his life. When Marie and then Hank express support for Walt's decision to die on his own terms, Skyler tries to pressure them to take her side. When Walt finally gets the talking pillow, he asks what good is living for just a little longer when chemotherapy would make it impossible for him to live a normal life. Walt sticks to his decision to refuse treatment.
Meanwhile, Jesse cooks and tosses out a few more batches of meth. When he announces that they can do better, Badger scuffles with him over the rejected meth, furious at his wasting the Pseudo that Badger had worked hard to obtain. Jesse pushes Badger out of the RV and drives away, while Badger fires at the RV with a crossbow.
Walt returns to Jesse's house.
The next morning, Walt smells Skyler's pillow and skin cream, and observes the baby and cancer books on her nightstand. Walking into the kitchen, Walt informs her that he has changed his mind and will accept the treatment. The couple visit a cancer clinic that day. Later, Walt receives a call from Gretchen urging him to accept her and Elliott's money for his cancer treatment. Walt says he appreciates the offer, but falsely claims that his insurance will pay for everything. Walt comes to Jesse's house and asks him if he wants to cook.

As he surveys the RV, Walt gives Jesse a stern lecture on how they will conduct business from now on: Walt is to be the "silent partner" who handles the chemistry side of the operation while Jesse deals on the street. Walt further stresses that he wants "no more bloodshed." This scene is intercut with shots of a bald man calmly walking through a group of bikers on a street littered with smoldering debris. As we pan up and his face is revealed, the bald man is revealed to be Walt in a flashforward.
Walt receiving treatment.
Walt receives treatment at the cancer clinic, convincing Skyler to leave him. Before departing, Skyler expresses concern that the check promised to them by Elliott has not been received. Walt falsely claims that he has deposited Elliott's check, but later asks the clinic's clerk not to deposit his own check until Monday.
The next day, Walt uses the example of fulminated mercury to teach his students how rapid chemical reactions can cause otherwise harmless substances to explode. Before he can finish his lesson, Walt abruptly leaves to vomit in the men's room, after which a school custodian named Hugo assists him. At a cancer support group, Skyler tells Walt she feels he doesn't want her around, and that she and Junior wonder where he disappears some afternoons. Walt says he needs to be alone sometimes, and that he goes on nature walks.
While cooking in the RV, Walt struggles to breathe and stumbles outside. Jesse assists Walt and quickly deduces that he has cancer, having had an aunt who also struggled with the disease. Jesse further realizes that the reason Walt has begun cooking meth is to financially provide for his family after he dies. When Walt can't continue cooking he tosses the respirator to Jesse, who heads into the RV to wrap up the cook.
Meanwhile, Gomez meets Hank in the parking lot of the Express Inn and hands him the gas mask that was discovered at Walt's original cook site. The crime lab report indicates the gas mask comes from Walt's high school.
Jesse selling the product.
At the Crystal Palace and around the city, Jesse sells the new meth batch to eager buyers. The next day, he gives Walt a pre-paid cell phone. Walt is dissatisfied with the $2,600 generated by the batch, only $1,300 of which is now his, but Jesse replies that it isn't easy selling meth "one 'tenth at a time." Wanting to move their product in bulk, Walt asks if Jesse knows any distributors. Jesse alludes to Krazy-8 being his distributor until Walt killed him. Jesse later tells Walt a "badass" named Tuco Salamanca has taken over Krazy-8's territory. Walt demands to meet Tuco, but Jesse insists that they stick with the less-risky approach of selling small quantities of meth.
Walt undergoes further treatment, which leads to more bouts of vomiting. Later, he gets a surprise visit from Hank, who presents him with the stolen gas mask that has now been linked to meth cooking. When Hank inventories the storage room in Walt's chemistry lab, he finds two gas masks missing along with some glassware. Jesse contacts Walt on his pre-paid phone, saying that Skinny Pete, who served time in jail with Tuco, is willing to introduce him. Hank warns Walt to keep a closer eye on his lab equipment, jokingly suggesting that people will suspect him of something drug-related.
Tuco tests the new product.
Across town, Tuco tries some of Walt and Jesse's meth and, impressed, is eager to buy it. Jesse names his price as $35,000, but Tuco tells him he's running a "consignment operation" so Jesse will have to wait. When Jesse demands the money up front and attempts to flee with the meth, he is quickly caught by Tuco's henchmen. Tuco puts some money in a canvas bag, but ends up savagely beating Jesse.
At the high school, Hugo is arrested by the DEA. Over a poker game in Walt's living room, Hank explains that Hugo fit the profile for the lab thefts and that marijuana was found in his vehicle, the latter of which will cost him his job and land him in jail. Walt bets all his chips, causing Hank to fold. Hank looks shocked when Marie shows him Walt had a handful of nothing. As he takes a shower the next morning, Walt's hair falls out in clumps as a result of the chemotherapy. After calling Jesse, he finds out from Skinny Pete that Jesse has ended up in the hospital. There, Walt observes a sleeping Jesse wearing a neck brace and asks Skinny Pete to tell him about Tuco.
Walt visits Jesse in the Hospital
Tuco's hideout is blown to ruin.
The next morning, upon finding more clumps of hair falling out, Walt shaves his head completely. Carrying a bag of what appears to be crystal meth, Walt talks his way into Tuco's hideout. Upon meeting Tuco, Walt identifies himself as "Heisenberg" and demands $50,000, equivalent to $35,000 for the stolen meth, plus $15,000 for Jesse's pain-and-suffering. Tuco and his gang laugh openly at Heisenberg's "brilliant plan", responding to Tuco's theft and assault on Jesse by bringing him even more meth to steal. Walt picks up a crystalline nugget from the bag and calmly informs Tuco, "this is not meth," and hurls it to the floor. The ensuing explosion blows out the windows in Tuco's office, sending debris falling onto the street below.
Ears ringing, coughing violently on plaster dust, Tuco's vision clears just in time to see Walt brandishing the packet of "meth" over his head, and hurriedly tells his men to put away their guns. He agrees to pay Walt the $50,000, and tells him that his meth sold faster than any other product he had ever seen. Walt agrees to sell his next batch to Tuco, provided that payment is made upfront and that Tuco agrees to accept at least two pounds. Before he leaves, Tuco asks what the "meth" in the bag actually is, and Walt reveals it is mercury fulminate.
Walt walks away from the ruined hideout carrying a bag full of cash. In his car, Walt clutches his newly earned wealth and vents his aggression, high on the rush of what he's just done. Regaining his composure, Walt drives away from the scene with police sirens in the distance.

At the high school, Walt and Skyler attend a PTA meeting concerning the chemistry lab thefts. Seated next to each other, Walt begins to stroke Skyler's thigh under the table. She resists at first but then revels in the erotic moment, which is cut short when Walt is called upon. Later in the parking lot, the two have sex in Walt's car. Skyler wonders why this tryst felt especially good, to which Walt replies because it was illegal.
While a realtor shows Jesse's house to a couple, Walt arrives and looks for Jesse. Walt finds him in the RV, his ribs still bandaged from his run-in with Tuco. Walt hands Jesse his cut from the deal with Tuco, but Jesse is unhappy to learn that the deal requites them to make two more pounds of meth. Jesse mocks Walt's "brilliant business plan," saying that it's almost impossible to procure enough pseudo to produce that much meth.
At a meeting with Dr. Delcavoli, Skyler notes that Walt's color is better and that he has become more sexual since starting his treatment, and expresses interest in alternative therapies. Dr. Delcavoli says they're fine as long as they don't interfere with his treatments.
Walt arranges to meeting with Tuco at a junkyard. When Tuco arrives, he is displeased to learn from Walt that there were "production problems," handing him far less than the two pounds he was expecting. Tuco says he thought Walt was a player, but Walt holds his ground and dares to ask for more money, proposing that Tuco consider it a capital investment. The two men work out a loan at twenty-five percent weekly interest. Walt ups the ante by asking if Tuco wants four pounds instead of two. Tuco agrees but delivers a stern warning: "Talk is talk. But owing me money, that's bad."
Back at his house, Jesse frets that it'll take "two, three hundred boxes of sinus pills" to make four pounds of meth. Walt says they'll produce their own ingredients, but when he hands Jesse a list of chemicals and equipment to buy, Jesse tries to back out. It is after Walt encourages him to believe in himself that Jesse agrees to take on the endeavor.
At a festive baby shower held at the White residence, Skyler is shocked by Marie's gift: an expensive baby tiara. Hank and Walt go out by the pool to share stiff drinks, and Cuban cigars procured by Hank's FBI colleague. As Walt notes how Cuban cigars are illegal, he muses "what's legal, what's illegal [...] it's arbitrary," referencing how alcohol used to be illegal during Prohibition. Hank answers that it goes both ways too; "there's stuff that's legal that shouldn't be," mentioning meth used to be legally sold in pharmacies. That night, Skyler talks about returning Marie's gift. Walt switches the subject to alternative medicine and talks about going to a Navajo sweat lodge for the weekend.
After Walt arrives at Jesse's house, he congratulates Jesse for scoring the supplies, though a key chemical – methylamine – is missing. Jesse has found some professionals who can steal it from a warehouse, but they want $10,000 for the job. Seeing one of Junior's old toys on a shelf in the garage, Walt suggests they steal it themselves.
In Jesse's kitchen, Walt extracts the aluminum powder from Etch-a-Sketch toys, and mixes it with powdered iron oxide to make thermite, which produces a surface temperature high enough to melt through four inches of solid steel, and thus will break any lock that the warehouse is likely to have on its door.
Later, at a jewelry store, Skyler attempts to return the tiara, but instead of getting cash back, she is detained for shoplifting. Skyler tries to explain that the tiara was a gift, but the owner says he's pressing charges. Thinking quickly, Skyler threatens to call the local TV news and fakes going into labor. After bluffing her way out of the store, she angrily phones Marie.
Walt and Jesse make their (slow) getaway with their stolen barrel of methylamine.
That evening, after locking a guard inside a portable toilet, Walt and Jesse break into the warehouse and, despite a few glitches, pull off the heist and steal a drum of methylamine. Unfortunately, the RV fails to start the next day, forcing the duo to cook in Jesse's basement. Even more unfortunate, the realtor has scheduled another open house. Walt tells Jesse to get the visitors to leave while he tries to cook. When one of the buyers insists on inspecting the basement, Jesse pushes him back into the kitchen and announces the house is not for sale anymore.
Meanwhile, Skyler chases down Marie at a women's clothing boutique, asking her why she stole the tiara. Marie denies Skyler's accusations and says she doesn't know what her sister is talking about. When Walt comes home, Skyler explains the situation and criticizes Marie for refusing to admit to her wrongdoing, to which Walt says that people sometimes do things for their families. Skyler asks if that justifies stealing. Walt asks what she would do if it were him, and asks if she would divorce him or turn him into the police. Skyler warns him that "you don't want to find out".
Walt and Jesse react to Tuco's assault.
The following day, Walt and Jesse meet Tuco again at the junkyard. When Tuco becomes curious to know why the meth is blue, Walt tells him that they used a different process. Sampling the product, Tuco is ecstatic about the results. However, when his henchman No-Doze presumes to speak for him, Tuco viciously attacks him, showing Walt and Jesse his bloodied knuckles. The duo look on, horrified by the scene. Finishing up, Tuco laughs and tells a bewildered Walt that he'll see him next week.
The episode opens on black and white shots of a backyard. The camera pans over to reveal what appears to be a plastic eyeball in a pool of water. The eyeball is then sucked into the drain of the pool while a pink teddy bear, missing its left eye, floats underwater.
After buying meth from Walt and Jesse at the junkyard, Tuco violently attacks his henchman, No-Doze, for presuming to speak for him. Afterwards, he drives away, leaving Walt and Jesse to ponder the danger of their situation. In Jesse's car, Walt calculates that he needs $737,000 to provide for his family’s future, factoring in medical bills, his children's tuition, mortgage, and other variables—in other words, eleven more meth deals—before he can leave the drug business.
Moments later, Tuco roars back to the junkyard in his SUV, ordering Walt to resuscitate an unconscious No-Doze. Walt is unable to help No-Doze as he dies as a result of the brutal attack. Tuco's other henchman, Gonzo, says they should give his buddy a proper burial, but Tuco orders him to stash the body underneath a stack of old cars. Walt and Jesse begin to leave, but Tuco questions them, to which Walt says they thought they were done. Tuco tells them coldly they are done. The two begin to leave, but Jesse is grabbed by the neck and shoved to the ground. Tuco stares intently at the two as they depart.
Walt returns home, where Skyler is applying an avocado mask. She discovers him aimlessly clicking through television channels, and asks him what he’s doing. He sobs briefly before standing behind her and forcing himself on her, even after she asks him to slow down. Only when she screams "Stop it!" does he let up. Walt rests in the backyard, overlooking the pool. Skyler follows and says that while she understands his situation, he cannot take his anger out on her. As the two talk, Junior returns home and sees the avocado imprint of Skyler's face on the refrigerator.
Jesse purchases a gun at a local fast food joint, the Dog House, telling Walt that he thinks Tuco wants to kill both of them for witnessing No-Doze's murder. Jesse argues for pre-emptively killing Tuco before he kills them. Walt makes Jesse walk through how he would shoot Tuco and his crew, pointing out many problems with his ill-conceived plan. Walt also questions whether Jesse will have it in him. Jesse points out that Walt did, to which he grimly replies, "Yeah."
Marie invites Skyler to dinner, but Skyler doesn't answer the phone. Hank reminds Marie that she has a therapy appointment at the same time she was planning to eat out. Defensive, Marie tells him he’s mistaken and speeds away in her car, intentionally running over an RC toy belonging to a neighbor kid. Hank approaches the distraught kid and apologizes while taking out a money clip of cash from his pocket.
Gomez shows Hank grainy surveillance footage of a recent break-in at a chemical warehouse. Hank, unaware that he's watching Walt and Jesse, laughingly gives them low marks as burglars but concedes that they know their chemistry, correctly deducing that they are using methylamine as part of their cooking process. They note the large amount of meth they will be able to cook and predict they're going to step on some toes. After Walt pulls into his driveway that evening, a suspicious SUV parked down the street eases away.
Skyler notices that Walt has spent the night watching the street outside; he bolts upright when the phone rings. The call is from Marie, but Skyler picks up the receiver and immediately hangs up. Later, Walt confronts Jesse about the other night, and questions him on whether he had given information to Tuco about him. Jesse denies doing so and warns Walt that Tuco is about to make a move. Jesse wants Walt to get his own gun to double their chances of survival, but Walt has another idea: use castor beans to create ricin, a poison they can slip to Tuco.
When Hank visits Skyler, she questions if Marie sent him. He denies it, informing her that Marie is barely talking to him. When he asks Skyler to return Marie's phone calls, she tells him about Marie's shoplifting problem; he is aware of it and claims that Marie is getting help. This angers Skyler, who cites her pregnancy; her absent, cancer-stricken husband; a moody son; an overdrawn checking account and a defective water heater as problems more pressing than those of her "spoiled, kleptomaniac, bitch sister." When she breaks down sobbing, Hank sheepishly hugs her and offers to check out the water heater.
Over at Jesse's house, he and Walt cook up the ricin. Their plan is to offer the ricin to Tuco in a sample of their latest meth formula. Jesse wonders whether Tuco will question their latest meth formula, but Walt says that Tuco will snort anything he gets his hands on. Hank calls Walt from a crime scene to apologize for attempting to reconcile Skyler and Marie. Laughing, he sends Walt a cell-phone picture of both No-Doze and Gonzo, whose bodies have been found at the junkyard. Walt and Jesse stare at the photo in horror.
Walt grabs Jesse's gun to protect his family. Jesse protests, saying he needs it, but Walt orders him to leave town. Jesse grabs a duffel bag full of money and flees, while Walt speeds home. There, he calls out for his family members but gets no response. He draws the gun and begins to search the house. Walt soon finds Skyler relaxing in the tub; she has had the whole house to herself as Junior is visiting his friend Louis for dinner. Skyler asks Walt where he has been, but instead of answering her, he goes to stash his drug money and Jesse's gun in a box of diapers.
Back at the junkyard, police are at the scene inspecting the bodies of No-Doze and Gonzo, whom Hank recognizes. The officers decide to lay the bodies flat, but it is soon apparent that Gonzo wasn't murdered: a car crushed his arms while he was attempting to move No-Doze’s body, and he bled to death from the injury.
Back at his house, Walt starts to answer Skyler's question but is interrupted when he sees Jesse's car out front. Jesse is outside his house. Walt asks Jesse what he's doing there as he approaches Jesse’s car. Then he discovers Tuco is crouched in the back seat with a handgun. Tuco orders Walt to get in. After he reluctantly does so, Jesse's car rolls off silently down the street.
When Hank calls Walt during a crime scene and sends him a picture, there is afternoon light coming through the windows in Walt and Jesse's shots, but it's night time where Hank Schrader is working at.
Out in the desert, Jesse's car is riddled with bullet holes and bounces wildly on its hydraulic suspension system, shedding glass fragments from its rear windshield. Spent casings and drops of blood litter the ground. A body lies behind the car, half hidden from view.
After briefing his DEA team about a raid on Tuco's hideout, Hank tells Gomez he's taking personal leave to search for Walt, who has gone missing. At the White residence, Sgt. Tim Roberts questions Skyler about the events leading up to Walt's disappearance. She says that he was agitated about something, but that he didn't explain what it was. Skyler and Marie distribute "Missing" posters of Walt. Marie tries to use the occasion to try to explain the tiara situation, but Skyler cuts her off. Meanwhile, in the desert, Tuco releases Jesse and Walt from the trunk of Jesse's car.
Tuco takes Walt and Jesse to a remote, run-down shack in the desert where his ailing uncle, referred to as Tio, lives. Tuco orders Walt and Jesse to empty their pockets. Among Walt's belongings is the ricin-laced meth and his wallet, which reveals his true identity to Tuco.
Tuco grabs Walt by the neck and asks if he can trust him. After railing about his suspicions that Gonzo snitched to the DEA, Tuco says he wants to get high. Jesse tries to convince him to sample the poisoned meth, but Tuco balks at its "head cheese" smell. Jesse tries to improvise by describing the high Tuco could achieve, but Tuco refrains from tasting it when Jesse says it contains chili powder. Tuco instead opts for the "blue magic" he previously purchased at the junkyard, claiming he hates the spice.
One snort gets Tuco so ripped he wants to shoot Jesse, but Walt intervenes. Tuco then announces that has cousins from Mexico who are coming to smuggle him and Walt out of the country, with Walt being forced to cook meth for them 24/7 in a superlab. As for Jesse, he'd better hope there's room in the trunk for him.
At the White residence, Marie tells Skyler that she suspects Walt has a second cell phone which he used it to contact Jesse, who Skyler believes is his pot dealer. Hank thinks she is grasping at straws, but Marie insists Hank should question him. Hank instead visits Jesse's mother, who tells him the type of car Jesse drives. Hank calls Gomez to find out if Jesse installed a car-tracking system, and, if so, to try to get a fix on the vehicle's location.
Back at Tio's shack, Tuco prepares to cook burritos while Gonzo and No-Doze's deaths are covered on the local news. Walt changes the channel, afraid that Tuco will suspect him and Jesse of ratting him out should he learn that Gonzo is dead and not a DEA informant. Jesse suggests Walt sacrifice himself and attack Tuco before he learns of Gonzo's fate. Walt proposes instead that they slip Tuco the ricin in his food. However, Tio catches Walt trying to lace Tuco's burrito and repeatedly rings a bell attached to his wheelchair to warn his nephew. Tuco misreads Tio's warnings as a request to trade burritos, but when he gives his uncle the poisoned burrito, Tio knocks the plate to the floor. Shaking, Tio points a finger at Walt.
After the meal, Tio continues to ring his bell until Tuco realizes that his uncle is trying to warn him about Walt and Jesse. Tuco becomes enraged and drags Jesse outside, holding a gun to his head. Tuco forces Walt to admit that he tried to poison him, but Walt then states that Tuco is an "insane, degenerate piece of filth" who deserves to die. Tuco, further enraged by Walt's remark, takes his eyes off Jesse, allowing him to grab a rock and strike Tuco across the head. During the ensuing struggle, Walt grabs Tuco's assault rifle and Jesse his pistol, shooting Tuco in his side. They kick him into a ditch and leave him to die.
The two rush to Jesse's car, but quickly realize they don't have the keys. They see a vehicle approaching in the distance and assume that Tuco's cousins are approaching. Realizing that the keys are still in the shack, Walt and Jesse abandon the car and take cover nearby, leaving the rifle behind. Meanwhile Tuco, despite being critically wounded, manages to crawl out of the ditch and staggers over to the car just as the vehicle that Walt and Jesse spotted—Hank's Jeep Commander—pulls up to the shack.
Having tracked Jesse's car to this location, Hank climbs out of the Jeep and momentarily thinks that Tuco is Jesse. He is alarmed when Tuco turns to face him. Both men stare at each other for several tense seconds. The tension is broken when Tuco suddenly reaches into the car and grabs the rifle, resulting in a shootout. Tuco and Hank fire at each other until their guns are empty. Hank is quicker to reload and, the moment Tuco stands up, Hank fires a shot into Tuco's forehead, killing him instantly. Hank then emerges from cover and advances over to Tuco's body, not knowing that Walt and Jesse are watching him from nearby. The two flee on foot unnoticed by Hank, whose attention is drawn to the sound of Tio's bell ringing repeatedly inside the shack.

After burying Tuco's gun in the desert, Walt and Jesse hatch a plan to explain away their days of absence. After splitting up with Jesse, Walt hitches a ride back to civilization in a pickup truck. Shortly, in a supermarket, a clerk follows a trail of clothes littering the floor to find Walt, seemingly weak and confused, walking naked down an aisle.
Walt is taken to a hospital in Albuquerque, where he joins Skyler and Junior in a tearful reunion. Walt claims that he can't remember the last couple of days, but says that he feels fine now. Skyler steps outside to make a phone call to Marie, who is with Hank as he is delivering an official statement to his DEA superiors, ASAC George Merkert and SAC Ramey, about the shooting with Tuco. Notably, he lies about having asked Tuco to show his hands.
Jesse, who has also returned to Albuquerque, sits in a car with Badger, watching as Albuquerque police officers are staking out Jesse's house. After the cops leave, Jesse and Badger are able to enter the property. Badger is excited when he sees the meth-cooking setup in Jesse's basement, but Jesse says they can't cook anything now. They toss the supplies into the RV, which Badger's cousin, Clovis, tows away with his truck—for a $1,000 fee which Jesse can only pay half of but promises to settle later. Jesse instructs Badger to make a call from a payphone.
Dr. Soper and Dr. Delcavoli quiz Walt about his experience, but Walt says he can't remember much of anything. Walt suggests that his disappearance and memory loss could have something to do with all his medications. He's informed that no matter the cause, he won't be released until the doctors are confident it won't recur. Meanwhile, based on the tip received from Badger, Hank's DEA team raids a motel room at "The Crystal Palace" that Jesse is sharing with Wendy.
Hank interrogates Jesse, who insists he was partying at the motel all weekend even though his car was found at the shack and denies that the $67,920 recovered from the vehicle is his. Hank tries to intimidate Jesse, saying he knows he was at Tuco's shack, but Jesse sticks to his story. Hank then turns his attention to Wendy who, remembering her previous encounter with him at the Crystal Palace, vouches for Jesse's story. Gomez says they have to let Jesse go because there's nothing solid to charge him with, but Hank wants one more shot at cracking him.
At the hospital, a psychiatrist tells Walt it could be days, weeks, or months before he is released. Walt confesses under doctor-patient confidentiality that he made up his story of having amnesia in order to cover for taking a few days off from the demands of his family.
Hank brings in Tio—real name Hector Salamanca—hoping to get him to identify Jesse. Despite being seemingly invalid, Hector does indeed remember Jesse, but follows what Gomez calls an "old school gangbang Mexican" code by refusing to rat on him. After Hank asks for Hector's help, he replies by defecating in his wheelchair. The DEA is forced to release Jesse without charge. Upon being released, Jesse calls his father for a lift, but his father refuses to help him. Jesse then calls Walt at the hospital and they bring one another up to speed. Walt asks Jesse if Clovis can get the RV working so they can start cooking again. When Jesse balks at the idea of cooking again, Walt asks, "What's changed?"
While analyzing his finances, Walt remembers stashing his drug money and Jesse's gun in a diaper box at his house. He sneaks out of the hospital and into the house in order to return them to his hiding place in the vent. Unseen, he witnesses Skyler and Junior share a close moment over a bowl of cereal then rides a bus back to the hospital.
At the DEA field office, Hank reviews footage of the methylamine heist and theorizes that the thieves cooked the blue meth recovered at Tuco's house. "Lab said that blue meth is the purest they've seen. At least since this," he adds, holding up the batch Walt made for Krazy-8. Hank's colleagues throw him a party to congratulate him for shooting Tuco and hand him a small gift. At the hospital, Hank shows Walt the gift: Tuco's glittering dental grill, set inside a lucite cube. Walt apologizes for putting Hank at risk, but he tells Walt not to worry—he's being treated like Eliot Ness at the office.
Walt says he feels good enough that he is allowed to return home. In bed that night, he assures Skyler that he won't go missing again. Skyler asks Walt if he has a second cell phone. Walt says he doesn't remember much about the weekend but claims that he doesn't. Walt leans in to kiss Skyler, but she turns away.
When an IV is inserted, the needle is removed and only a plastic catheter remains. Walt would not have a needle left in his hand and would therefore be unable to reestablish IV access without new equipment. Also, the angle he inserted the needle would have pierced completely through the vein and the IV fluids would not flow through the tubing.
Continuing the eerie scene first depicted in the season premiere, the charred pink teddy bear is retrieved from the pool by a figure in a hazmat suit. Placed into an evidence bag, the teddy bear is laid on the ground next to other collected objects, also wrapped in evidence bags, carefully organized along the side of the pool. The line of random objects ends with a pair of eyeglasses which appear to belong to Walt.
A broke Jesse meets Walt on the sly at a convenience store, asking for half of the remaining drug money. Walt argues that he shouldn't have to suffer for Jesse's carelessness, but does give him $600. The next morning, Walt prepares breakfast for Skyler and Junior. Attempting to explain away Skyler's suspicions about his second cell phone, Walt tells her she might have mistaken his phone's alarm — a reminder to take his medication — for an incoming call. When his back is turned, Walt doesn't notice Skyler slip out of the house.
Jesse's parents summon him to a meeting with their lawyer, Mr. Gardiner, and is told he has 72 hours to vacate his house, which formerly belonged to his aunt. When his mother tells Jesse about Hank's visit, he spins the story by claiming he works for the DEA. Jesse's mother calls him on this lie, telling him that she has already seen the meth lab in his basement. Mr. Gardiner explains that under federal law, the government is allowed to seize the entire house; Jesse has no choice but to move out.
When Skyler returns home, Walt asks where she's been, and her response is simply "out". Attempting to bridge the distance, Walt says that he's thinking of rejoining his cancer support group. Skyler's reaction to this is equally curt.
At Jesse's house, his mother enters his bedroom and wakes her sleeping son. Scurrying to hide his drug paraphernalia, Jesse pleads for another chance — but movers are already carting away his furniture. Jesse insists that the house is his, claiming he earned it helping his dying aunt after his mother abandoned her. Provoked, Jesse's mother slaps him, then says that she just wants him to turn his life around.
Meanwhile, Walt makes omelets, but Skyler and Junior pass on breakfast. As she leaves, again without explanation, Jesse makes the first of three increasingly frantic phone calls to Walt, but he isn't interested in the specifics. Walt then warns Jesse not to make contact under any circumstances.
Jesse meets with Paul — a settled-down and cleaned-up friend from high school — and they reminisce about their old garage band, TwaüghtHammër. However, Paul's wife comes home and tells Paul to kick Jesse out. Later, outside the convenience store, Jesse is on a payphone desperately looking for a place to stay. Jesse turns to find that his motorcycle — along with his few remaining possessions — has been stolen. That night, Jesse heads to the repair yard where Clovis is storing the RV. After scaling the fence, he tries to stand on the roof of a portable toilet, but the roof collapses and Jesse falls through. Blue disinfectant pours out of the toilet and Jesse emerges soaked in human waste. Gagging from his own stench, Jesse staggers into the RV, dons a gas mask, and cries himself to sleep.
The next morning, Skyler leaves the house again without word. Walt suggests that he and Junior do something "fun," and takes him for a driving lesson in the Aztek. However, the lesson ends abruptly when Walt won't let Junior use both feet to work the pedals, a technique to compensate for his disability, and he loses control of the car.
Meanwhile, at the repair yard, Clovis follows the trail of blue sludge from the busted toilet to the RV, and pulls a shotgun on a sleeping Jesse. When Jesse can't pay the towing and repair charges, Clovis threatens to sell the RV's contents and kicks him off the lot. While Clovis is on the phone making a deal to sell the cookware, Jesse sneaks back onto the lot and drives the RV through the locked gate.
At the White residence, Walt apologizes to Skyler for everything and, worried that she's questioning his fidelity, tries to reassure her that he's not having an affair. Skyler then tells him to say something that isn't "complete bullshit". When Walt claims not to know what she wants him to tell her, she leaves.
Walt follows Skyler onto the driveway and sees her drive off in her SUV before noticing the RV parked down the street. Entering the RV, Walt angrily berates at Jesse for showing up at his house, calling him a pathetic junkie and refusing to give him any more money. Jesse eventually snaps and throws Walt against a wall. Jesse quickly gains the upper hand, crouching on top of Walt with one hand around his throat and a fist poised to pound him. However, when Walt tells him to finish the job and kill him, Jesse relents. Back inside his house, Walt splits up his money nearly 50-50 with Jesse, keeping an extra stack of bills for himself.
Meanwhile, Skyler parks outside of the convenience store and begins to light a cigarette despite being pregnant, glaring when a woman parked next to her shakes her head. After pausing a moment, Skyler lights up and takes a long drag.
Two border-hoppers hurriedly swim across the Rio Grande. Once ashore, one of them stumbles in the mud and turns to find he's tripped over a dental grill encased in a Lucite cube: Hank's souvenir from his encounter with Tuco.
Following a chemotherapy session, Dr. Delcavoli advises that Walt be cautiously optimistic about his chances. However, Walt's optimism quickly fades when he sees the final bill for the treatment.
At the White residence, Skyler tells Walt that the three-day hospital stay following his "fugue state" will cost an additional $13,000, and asks—under the impression that Elliott and Gretchen Schwartz are paying for his treatment—can cover this expense as well. Walt tells Skyler they will and promises to handle it. That night, Walt counts his drug money, realizing that after everything he's been through he has almost nothing. Later, Walt retches into the toilet and finds it clogged when he tries to flush. When he uses a plunger, a pack of Skyler's cigarettes floats to the surface.
The next day, Hank tells his boss, ASAC George Merkert, that so far no one has filled the power vacuum in the local drug trade caused by Tuco's death. However, DEA agents keep hearing the name "Heisenberg" on the street. Praising Hank for his abilities as an investigator, Merkert offers him a promotion to the Tri-State Border Interdiction Task Force in El Paso, Texas, which will require him to split his time between there and Albuquerque. On the elevator down to a congratulatory lunch, Hank suffers a panic attack and struggles to breathe.
At the repair yard, Clovis confronts Jesse over his theft of the RV. Jesse pays him for services rendered and for the damages to his fence and toilet, then makes a deal to stash the RV at the repair yard and buy a used 1986 Toyota Tercel. Searching for an apartment, Jesse finds a small duplex managed by a young woman named Jane Margolis. Jane asks Jesse to provide proof of employment and a former address to rent the vacant unit, but cuts him a break when he tells her about his parents kicking him out of his house. Jane raises the rent, though, and demands more money up front.
Meanwhile, Marie expresses dismay when she discovers Hank has called in sick the day after his promotion so he can brew "Schraderbräu" beer in his garage. While he's capping bottles of beer, one shatters and cuts his hand.
In the desert, Walt and Jesse cook meth and argue about their partnership. Walt wants Jesse to sell small quantities again to avoid dealing with another distributor like Tuco. Jesse protests, saying the DEA is onto him. Jesse asserts he has bills that need paying, which angers Walt because his monetary returns have already been sapped by his medical bills. Instead of going into business with "yet another homicidal lunatic" or selling small quantities, Jesse proposes a third option: they control production and distribution themselves. Jesse offers to bring guys in who can handle the street end of the business, but Walt is not comfortable bringing unknown entities into their operation. When Walt balks at being denied a say in the decision, Jesse chastises him for altering their original plan by getting Tuco involved. Realizing Jesse is right, Walt takes responsibility for the situation with Tuco and promises that will never happen again. Jesse tells Walt that they will be handling business his way from now on or he walks.
Setting out pretzels and soda in his new apartment, Jesse presents a business opportunity to Skinny Pete, Badger, and Combo. He'll front them each an ounce of meth at a time, and they in turn sell the product for $2,500, $2,000 of which goes to Jesse.
Walt's family visits Hank and Marie. Alone with her sister, Skyler demands she apologize — "now or never" — for stealing the baby tiara and nearly getting Skyler arrested. Marie resists at first, but tearfully apologizes when Skyler says she needs her sister back. Elsewhere, Walt listens as Hank regales Junior with the story of his confrontation with Tuco, comparing criminals to cockroaches. Meanwhile, Badger, Combo, and Skinny Pete sell Jesse's meth all over town. Everything goes fine until Skinny Pete is held up by a pair of junkies who make off with an ounce of meth.
Discussing the meth theft with Walt, Jesse argues that they need to accept a little "breakage" as the cost of doing business. Meanwhile, back at the White residence, Walt shows Skyler the crumpled cigarette package he retrieved from the toilet, and accusingly asks if she knows anything about it. Skyler later admits to having smoked three-and-a-half cigarettes before disposing of the pack and says that of course she feels ashamed. Walt says it's unlike her, but Skyler dismisses this, asking, "How would you know?".
That night, Hank and Marie are awakened to loud gunshot-like pops coming from inside the house. Gun drawn, Hank heads into the garage, visibly shaken, only to find that it's just the sound of his Schraderbräu bottles exploding due to pressure.
Walt shows up at Jesse's apartment, handing over the gun Jesse bought to defend himself against Tuco. Walt tells him to "handle" the meth thieves. Meanwhile, Hank stands on the bank of the Rio Grande, takes a deep breath, and heaves Tuco's grill into the water.
In the scene where Jesse discusses the new business arrangement with Skinny Pete, Badger and Combo there is a slight continuity error. Combo takes the cap off the soda and as the camera cuts to behind Combo the lid is back on the soda. It then cuts back to in front of him and the lid is off. Then the camera cuts again and we see Combo take the lid off again.
As he waits alone on a sidewalk, Jesse crouches down and cautiously examines a large beetle as it wanders the pavement. Skinny Pete approaches, notices the same beetle and immediately crushes it underfoot. Skinny Pete, oblivious at Jesse's disappointment at killing the beetle, hands him the name and address of the junkies that robbed him—a man named Spooge and his unnamed female accomplice.
Outside Spooge's house, Jesse draws his pistol and tries to psych himself up. When a mailwoman pulls up, Jesse quickly hides his gun and engages in brief yet awkward small talk before she goes on her way. Spooge and his woman are absent from the house, so Jesse breaks in and enters the dank living room littered with garbage, ripped-up furniture and dirty laundry. As he waits on the couch, Jesse finds himself joined by an unkempt, half-dressed five-year-old boy. Turning on a television to a home shopping channel — the only station it gets — the child sits on the other end of the couch and tells Jesse he is hungry.
Skyler calls Gretchen to offer her a belated thanks for paying Walt's medical bills. A confused Gretchen starts to respond but can't find the words. When Skyler says that they should get together sometime, Gretchen proposes a visit that afternoon. Meanwhile, Walt returns to his teaching job. The school's assistant principal, Carmen Molina, sits in on his lecture, telling him afterwards that he should come to her if he ever has any "issues." At the end of the day, Walt heads to his car with Junior, where he finds one of his "Missing" posters stuck on the windshield. A student has defaced the poster so it now reads, "I'm MISSING My Pants!"
Back at Spooge's house, Jesse scratches up a sandwich and plays peekaboo with the little boy while he eats. The two addicts — grimy, bloodied, and arguing with each other — finally return home. Jesse carries the boy into a bedroom and then attacks the couple, pistol-whipping Spooge.
Walt arrives home to find Gretchen's Bentley parked in the driveway. Entering the living room, Walt finds his family thanking Gretchen for her generosity. Walt follows Gretchen to the driveway and asks her not to say or do anything until they have a chance to talk. Gretchen drives away without a word, clearly displeased with Walt's involving her in a lie.
Jesse gets the junkies to hand over a little of his stolen meth, but no cash. Just as he threatens to shoot them in the kneecaps, the little boy walks into the living room. Spooge's woman embraces her son, using him a shield, making it impossible for Jesse to do anything while he's in the room. Spooge tells him that they have his money, but that it's inside an ATM machine they have stolen from a convenience store. Spooge claims the theft was a "victimless crime" that "went smooth as silk." However, a flashback shows it resulted in the death of the clerk and a bag of Walt and Jesse's meth being left at the scene.
Spooge tries unsuccessfully to force the ATM open by pounding away at the machine with a sledgehammer, calling his girlfriend a "skank" when she questions his competence. Jesse notices that the little boy is missing, and takes the opportunity to chastise her over how she is raising him. Spooge's wife mouths off, outraged that Jesse dared accuse her of being a bad mother. The boy reappears and encourages Jesse to play peekaboo again. Jesse relents and, while his eyes are covered, Spooge's wife knocks him out from behind with a bottle.
Walt meets Gretchen at a fancy restaurant and pleads for time to "clear this up." When Gretchen asks why he lied to Skyler and questions how he is paying for his cancer treatment, Walt defiantly says that he owes her an apology but not an explanation. Walt then angrily accuses her and Elliott of making millions off his research, causing her to remind him that he was the one who left her without explanation. When Gretchen tells Walt that she feels sorry for him, Walt gives her a short response: "Fuck you." Gretchen gets up and leaves the restaurant.
When Walt returns home, a distraught Skyler tells him that Gretchen has called to say she and Elliott can't pay his medical bills anymore. Walt admits he drove to meet Gretchen and lies that he deduced from their chat that she and Elliott are broke. Skyler finds it odd that they're still driving fancy cars if that's indeed the case. Walter states it's just for show, to keep up appearances.
At Spooge's house, Jesse comes to and finds Spooge's wife aiming his own gun at him while Spooge rifles through Jesse's pockets. Later, Spooge leans the ATM against a chair and positioned himself underneath to drill into its base. Spooge once again argues with his woman and calls her a skank, in response, she pushes the ATM upright, crushing Spooge's head. Nonplussed, Spooge's wife grabs some dope off his body, crosses the room, and passes out on the couch. A shocked and panicked Jesse retrieves his gun from the body and begins wiping his fingerprints from around the house and off the ATM. As he does so, its door suddenly swings open and cash spills out.
Jesse grabs a wad of cash and calls 911. Telling the boy to close his eyes like they're playing peekaboo, Jesse carries him outside past Spooge's body. He sits him on the front steps, wraps a blanket around him, and tells him, "Just don’t go back inside, ok?" He assures him someone's coming for him soon. "You have a good rest of your life, kid," Jesse adds, slipping away while the sound of approaching sirens grows louder.
A narcocorrido band called Los Cuates de Sinaloa performs "Negro y Azul" (Black and Blue), in which "a gringo boss" named Heisenberg disrespects Mexican drug cartel by cornering the Albuquerque market with high-quality blue meth.
Walt heads to Jesse's apartment after repeatedly trying to reach him by phone. Pounding on the front door, Walt attracts the attention of Jesse's landlord, Jane, who refuses to grant him access even after he claims to be Jesse's father. Jesse finally appears at the door, and tells Walt to come in.
Inside, Walt scolds Jesse for holing up in his apartment and getting high. After learning that one of the junkies who ripped off Skinny Pete is dead, Walt says that he didn't want anybody to get killed. Jesse tells Walt that he couldn't stop Spooge's girlfriend from crushing his head with the ATM machine because she'd stolen his gun. Jesse can't stomach witnessing the gruesome murder, and is relying on pot to cope.
At his new office in El Paso, Hank mocks the idea of drug dealers praying to their patron saint, Jesús Malverde, and is the only one laughing at his own joke. When he asks his colleague Vanco why the saint's statue sits on his desk, the agent quotes Sun Tzu's The Art of War in saying that it's to help him know his enemy.
Jesse is due to make an exchange with Skinny Pete, Badger, and Combo, but is still distraught and refuses to leave his apartment. Walt goes in his place, meets the three at the National Museum of Nuclear Science & History, introducing himself as "Heisenberg." Handing over the latest haul, Skinny Pete tells Walt that because rumor has it that Jesse murdered Spooge, everyone is now afraid of him. Walt doesn't let on that the rumor isn't exactly true.
Skyler applies for a data-entry job at Beneke Fabricators, her old employer. When the receptionist gives her the brush-off, Skyler bolts past her to chat with the owner, her former boss Ted Beneke. After catching up, Ted offers Skyler her old bookkeeping position. Later, Marie alludes to a past incident of sexual harassment between Skyler and Ted. Skyler tells Marie that the drunken incident happened once and won't happen again.
Back at Jesse's apartment, Walt says that they should expand their territory to take advantage of Jesse's newfound street cred, comparing Jesse to a blowfish: the blowfish is small, but it scares off more formidable predators by puffing itself up to appear large and intimidating. Skeptical at first, Jesse eventually gets on board: "I'm a blowfish, yeah!" Meanwhile, in El Paso, Hank becomes irritated by his colleagues' strategy of kowtowing to Tortuga, a high-level drug informant that they're interviewing. Tortuga explains to Hank that he got his name (Spanish for turtle) because, "I take my time, but I always win."
Jesse leaves his apartment for the first time in days. Outside, Jane sketches a tattoo design, which Jesse admires. While Jesse chats with Jane, a biker rolls by and loudly addresses him as "Pinkman". Jane notes his last name, as he didn't use his real one when he began renting his apartment.
Meanwhile, on a stakeout in Mexico, Hank overhears as fellow agents mock him in Spanish. One agent, who says Hank's promotion was about politics, falsely reassures him that they're just singing his praises. Hank thinks he spots Tortuga in the distance on one of the hills.
The DEA El Paso team pile into their vehicles and drive down into the valley, only to discover a gruesome sight: Tortuga's severed head has been mounted on a live tortoise, with "HOLA DEA" painted on its shell. To his colleagues' amusement, Hank edges away in disgust. Seconds later, one of the Spanish-speaking officers tries to lift the head off of the tortoise, setting off a hidden explosive device. The blast kills the tortoise and the agent, and wounds three other men; one of them, Vanco, his right leg is blown off below the knee. A still-woozy Hank totters over to Vanco and uses his belt as a tourniquet.
At the museum, Jesse meets with Badger, Combo, and Skinny Pete and tells them that they need to recruit more dealers into a layered command structure. Even with the new system, however, Walt tells Jesse that they are still not charging enough, saying after they've cornered the market they need to raise the price. Meanwhile, at Beneke Fabricators, Ted tells Skyler that he has split up from his wife and suggests that they go out to lunch some time.
At the duplex, Jesse is smoking on his back porch while Jane does the same on hers. He admits that his name is Pinkman and that Walt isn't really his father. Jane says that she doesn't care what his business is, as long as he doesn't do it at the duplex. Jesse invites Jane over to see his new flat-screen television. The two sit in folding lawn chairs waiting for the satellite dish to acquire a signal. Jesse squirms impatiently until Jane reaches over and holds his hand.
Badger is sitting at a bus stop when a thin guy named Getz sits next to him and asks if he is selling. Badger almost immediately laughs the customer off, convinced that he is an undercover cop. The customer lifts his shirt to show that he's not wearing a wire as Badger suspects, and almost starts to walk away before Badger apologizes. Still, Badger explains that he can't sell to the guy, because there's no way to be sure that he isn't a cop. The customer explains that a cop can't deny that he's a cop if asked directly. Delighted, Badger asks him if he's a cop. When the customer says "no", the two make a deal for some blue meth. A split second later, the customer pulls out a gun and badge, arresting Badger on the spot.
Having had sex the previous night, Jesse and Jane lay together in his apartment. However, Jane abruptly leaps up when he suggests they smoke marijuana, explaining that she is a recovering drug addict who has been clean for eighteen months.
Marie tells Walt that she's worried about Hank, who has holed himself up in his bedroom since the incident with Tortuga. When Walt visits him, Hank admits that he was taken off guard by the war-like atmosphere in El Paso, but says that seeing a shrink about it would kill his career. Walt suggests that Hank could talk to him about it, explaining how his cancer diagnosis helped him conquer his fear of everyday life.
At Jesse's apartment, he and Walt split up $90,000. Walt, expecting more, asks Jesse about the missing money. Jesse explains that Badger hasn't put in his full amount. When Jesse calls Combo to ask for Badger's whereabouts, he learns that his friends were too intimidated to inform Jesse of Badger's arrest.
Pulling himself together, Hank returns to the DEA field office in Albuquerque and is greeted with applause by his colleagues. Gomez informs Hank that Badger was picked up with the blue meth that Hank is so interested in. The two decide to head to the police station to join the APD in questioning Badger.
Detective Getz, the undercover cop who busted Badger, tries to convince him to give up his supplier. Before Badger can respond, Saul Goodman, a flamboyant criminal defense attorney, enters the interview room and dismisses Getz before looking over Badger's case and discussing his retainer fee. When he spots Hank and Gomez, Saul becomes convinced that the DEA must be interested in Badger only if they think he can lead them to bigger fish. Jesse takes Walt to Saul's law office at a strip mall, explaining to a hesitant Walt that they do not need a criminal lawyer (a lawyer who defends criminals), but a criminal lawyer (a lawyer who is also a criminal).
Walt loses a coin toss to determine who will go into Saul's office and pay his retainer fee. Upon entering the office, Walt introduces himself as Badger's uncle, "Mr. Mayhew". Saul reports that the DEA wants Badger to lead them to a mystery man named Heisenberg. Saul initially insists on making Badger give up Heisenberg, but seems to reconsider when Walt offers him $10,000. Walt has another coughing fit. Upon returning to Jesse's car, Walt reports that Saul kicked him out of the office for trying to bribe him.
After nightfall, Walt and Jesse, donning ski masks, kidnap Saul as he leaves his office and haul him in the RV to a freshly dug shallow grave. Aiming a gun at Saul, Jesse instructs him to represent Badger and threatens to kill him if anyone snitches to the DEA. While Jesse and Walt have Saul on his knees in the desert, Saul utters "It wasn't me. It was Ignacio!" and he is relieved that "Lalo" didn't send them. Walt doubles over coughing, prompting Saul to recognize him. Saul instructs Walt and Jesse to remove their masks and each put a dollar in his pocket, thereby making their conversation protected by attorney-client privilege. The duo hear Saul's assessment of their situation: "Somebody’s going to prison. It's just a matter of who."
Under questioning from Hank, Badger describes Heisenberg as a middle-aged bald man. Meanwhile, Saul hands Walt the dossier for James Kilkelly, a bald ex-convict known as "Jimmy In-'N-Out," who will willingly allow himself to be put in jail as Heisenberg for a fee. Saul outlines the cost: $80,000 plus a pound of Walt and Jesse's meth.
The next day, the DEA and APD stake out the bus stop. Walt and Jesse watch from a distance in Walt's Aztek. Badger arrives on time, but Jimmy is late. Eventually a different bald man sits next to Badger, who doesn't know this isn't Jimmy. When the real Jimmy sits down on a nearby bench, Badger is busy soliciting the wrong man, trying to make the deal. Walt speeds around the block to the bench and makes Jesse intervene. After Jesse exits the car, Walt zips over to the stakeout vehicle to talk to Hank, thereby blocking their view and buy time for Jesse to redirect Badger. Jesse directs Badger to the correct bench and Jimmy's arrest goes down as planned. Later, Jane drops by Jesse's apartment and they make love.
Saul visits Walt's high school and walks into his classroom, chiding him for being easy for his PI to locate. Walt asks if Saul is blackmailing him, but Saul says that he isn't. Referencing The Godfather, Saul offers to act as Walt's consigliere in his meth operation, providing him with the right connections and strategy to succeed in the drug trade, ending the conversation with "If you want to make more money, and keep the money that you make, Better Call Saul!"
Walt undergoes tests to see if his cancer treatment has reduced the size of his tumor. Dr. Delcavoli won't share the results for another four days, but upon briefly glimpsing the scan’s image, Walt notices a large white spot on top of his lung.
Saul gives Walt a tutorial on money laundering. After all the costs associated with Badger’s arrest, Walt has $16,000 left, of which he would receive only $9,960. Walt lets on that he might not have much longer to live, but intends to cook a lot more. Elsewhere, Skyler suggests a weekend outing to take the family's mind off the test results, but Walt says that he wants to visit his mother to ensure she'll leave money to Skyler if he dies.
Jesse makes plans with Jane to visit the Georgia O'Keeffe Museum in Santa Fe, but Walt derails the getaway when he tells Jesse that they need to cook non-stop until Tuesday. When Jesse balks, Walt tells him that their methylamine is losing its chemical potency.
Skyler drops Walt off at the airport and drives away. After a moment, Walt exits the airport and Jesse pulls up in the RV to take Walt to their cook session. They drive deep into the desert and prepare for a long cook. When Walt scolds Jesse for tossing the RV's keys on their workspace, Jesse leaves the keys in the ignition. Unbeknownst to the duo, an indicator lamp on the dashboard lights up.
Walt and Jesse are ecstatic when two days of cooking yields 42 pounds of meth, which will net them $672,000 each. However, their celebration is cut short when they realize that their generator has run out of gas, Jesse is concerned, but Walt insists that they keep cooking until they've exhausted the methylamine.
Jesse suggests they break for the night: a trip to Denny's, a hot shower, and a bed instead of a cot are too good to pass up, he argues. Walt finally agrees, but they discover that because Jesse left the keys in the ignition, the dashboard indicator lamp has completely drained the RV's battery. Walt fumes at Jesse now that they are now stranded in the desert.
Walt siphons some diesel from the RV, intending to use the generator to jump-start the battery. Some of the fuel spills over the generator. Walt connects the jumper cables incorrectly ("red to red, black to black"), causing a short-circuit, and the subsequent spark sets the generator ablaze. Just as Walt arrives with a fire extinguisher, Jesse douses the flames with their remaining drinking water. "Excuse me for thinking on my feet," Jesse says when Walt blames him for their predicament.
Jesse tries to call Skinny Pete for help, but can't get a cell phone signal. Walt's phone works, but he assumes that Skyler checks his call logs and only reluctantly hands it over to Jesse. Skinny Pete gets lost on the way, and Walt's phone's battery dies before Jesse can redirect him. The next morning, Walt tries to "trickle charge" the battery by hand-cranking the generator. He and Jesse share cranking duties for hours in the hot sun. Taking a break, Jesse walks over to Walt, who erupts into a heavy fit of coughing. Jesse realizes that Walter's health must be eroding and that he lied about the methylamine spoiling.
After still more cranking, the engine fires up briefly, but dies. Jesse punches the dash in frustration. He exits the RV to find Walt sitting in a field of grass, one palm covered in coughed-up blood.
Resigned, Walt and Jesse lay on cots in the RV to escape the desert heat. "I deserve this," Walt says. Jesse argues that everything Walt has done was for his family. Walt counters the only thing he ever did for his family was worry and disappoint them. "All the lies," Walt continues. "I can't even keep them straight in my head anymore." Jesse wants to start walking out of the desert, but Walt warns that he'll die within an hour.
Jesse rattles off things Walt could create with their lab supplies — a robot, a homing device, a dune buggy — until one idea clicks with Walt: he can make a mercury battery using chemicals, coins, and galvanized metal. Explaining the science to Jesse as he goes along, Walt assembles the battery. The duo connect the battery to the RV and a big spark shoots off the terminal. Back in the RV, Walt tries the ignition and after several anxious seconds the engine groans to life. When Jesse drops off Walt at the airport, he assures him that, "Whatever happens, your family will get your share," Jesse replies.
At Dr. Delcavoli's office, Walt learns that, contrary to his worst fears, his cancer is in remission and his tumor has shrunk by 80 percent. Skyler, Junior, Hank, and Marie celebrate, but Walt admits he has been coughing up blood, to which Dr. Delcavoli reveals that the large white spot on his scan is treatable tissue inflammation. Walt goes to the restroom and washes his face. As he dries his hands, Walt looks up and sees his reflection in the metal towel dispenser. After pausing briefly, Walt violently punches the dispenser with his fist in anger.
The episode opens up on the pink teddy bear previously seen in other episodes. The bear is put into a container, along with other retrieved items as men in hazmat suits continue to clean the area. Two of them carry the container past Walt's Aztek—with its windshield broken—and two body bags lying in the driveway of the White residence.
As Walt prepares to return to work, Skyler convinces him to stay home, wanting him in good shape for a party she is planning, celebrating his remission. As soon as she leaves, Walt calls Jesse. The duo eat at Taco Sal, where Jesse is happy to hear that Walt is in remission. Jesse wonders how they'll proceed in "light of this kickass news.", Walt says that he plans to retire from the drug trade after they unload the remaining meth.
At Walt's party, Skyler thanks everyone for their support, and toasts to the absent Gretchen and Elliott. Walt's briefly remarks "When I got my diagnosis — cancer — I said to myself, you know...'Why me?' And then... the other day... when I got the good news... I said the same thing.", and in response, is met awkward silence.
Chatting at the poolside with Walt and Junior, Hank says that the "cartel boys" putting Tortuga's severed head on a tortoise rigged with explosives was "poetic". Walt, angry that Junior is more impressed with Hank's story, pours tequila shots for Hank, himself, and Junior. Despite Hank's protests, Walt pours two more rounds of tequila and, when Hank takes away the bottle, angrily demands that he give it back. The tension builds until Junior, sick from the tequila, stumbles to the pool and vomits. While Skyler attends to her son, an obstinate Walt downs another shot.
At Jesse's apartment, Jesse awkwardly prepares Jane a surprise breakfast of huevos rancheros. Meanwhile, Walt leaves an apology on Skyler's voicemail for his behavior at the party. He starts washing the dishes, but stops when the faucet spits out brown, frothy water from the house's faulty water heater. At work, Ted bumps into Skyler while she listens to Walt's message. During their conversation, Skyler explains that Walt has cancer, but that they got good news last week. Walt heads to the hardware store and is proud to pay cash for a top of the line tankless water heater. Counting out the bills, he discreetly pockets a twenty that's smeared with blood and tells the clerk he'll install the heater himself.
Jesse and Jane lounge in bed while she peruses superhero sketches Jesse drew as a kid. Someone knocks on Jane's front door. Without explanation, she races out Jesse's back door and into her own apartment. Jane greets her father, Donald Margolis, just before he uses his key to open her door. While they talk, Jesse emerges from his apartment and introduces himself, but Jane brushes him off as the "new tenant".
After testing the new water heater, Walt apologizes to Junior for his actions at the party. "But I kept up, right?" Walter Jr. asks. "You and Uncle Hank — I drank three." Concerned, Walt shuffles out of the room. Later, Walt goes back to the hardware store and loads up on supplies to dismantle the rotted floor in his utility closet. Later, Junior comes home and finds Walt sawing away under the house. Meanwhile, Jesse confronts Jane about how she treated him in front of Donald, believing that she is embarrassed by him. Jane responds that she can't admit to her father that she is sleeping with a stoner living next door. Disgusted, Jesse leaves.
Working late, Skyler gets teary-eyed with Ted, confessing she feels guilty for not feeling better after Walt's good news. "Being that rock" for one's family "takes everything you've got," Ted tells her, putting his hand on hers. She withdraws her hand, but then returns it.
The next morning, Skyler and Junior eat their breakfast in silence as Walt continues his construction project. When he takes a break to eat some toast, Skyler asks Walt if he's going to work that day, Walt responds, telling her that there's rot; Walt then drinks orange juice, and gets back to work, dealing with the rot. At work, Skyler deliberately upends her penholder to draw Ted's attention. When he comes to her aid she plays with her hair and flirts with him.
In his apartment, a distraught Jesse smokes meth and curls up in his recliner. A sheet of paper slides under his door. It's a sketch of a superheroine named "Apology Girl", leaving Jesse smiling.
"Stay out of my territory."
Back at the hardware store, Walt notices acetone, lye, and other meth supplies in a shopping cart. When a tweaker returns with boxes of matches, Walt points out that the ones he got are incorrect and him buying all of the supplies from one store will raise suspicion. Spooked, the guy runs away. Walt gets in line to purchase his own selections but suddenly changes his mind and heads to the parking lot. Staring down the tweeker's burly partner, Walt says, "Stay out of my territory." Frightened, the two get in their RV and drive away while Walt watches with a look of grim satisfaction.
Casually sipping a fountain drink, Combo is standing on a street corner, selling Walt's meth in new territory. A car pulls up and Combo is confronted by two rival dealers inside. After Combo raises his shirt and shows them the silver pistol in his waistband, the dealers pull off. Combo returns back to the corner as the two men circle the block, watching him from an intersection. Nervous, Combo calls Skinny Pete and asks for backup. While he talks, a young boy circles him on his bicycle. Moments later, the dealers honk the horn of their car, signaling the boy to brandish a pistol and shoots Combo in the chest. Combo tries to flee, but only makes it to the middle of the street before the boy finishes him off. The boy and the dealers then flee the scene as Combo bleeds to death.
Walt and Skyler meet with Dr. Delcavoli and Dr. Victor Bravenec, a thoracic surgeon. Dr. Bravenec tells Walt he is a candidate for an aggressive, risky surgery to remove his lung tumor. Learning that he's "just waiting for the cancer to spread" if he passes, Walt agrees to the surgery even though the bill could run as high as $200,000. Later that day, Jesse calls Walt to inform him of Combo's death, only for Walt to indirectly admit to not even remembering who Combo was, causing Jesse to hang up in disgust. Meanwhile, at Jesse's apartment, Skinny Pete bemoans Jesse's mandate to expand their territory and wants out of Walt's meth business, saying that they have lost their street cred now that everyone knows Jesse didn't actually kill Spooge.
Walt and Jesse visit Saul's office, where their conversation quickly devolves into an argument over who's to blame for their setbacks. Saul puts a stop to the argument and after checking with Jesse that Combo didn't have anything identifying him as one of their dealers, says that the police are unlikely to spend much effort investigating his death. Walt angrily complains that their distribution network has completely collapsed, leaving them with no way of shifting the thirty-eight pounds of meth they have to hand after their recent cooking session. Saul is momentarily stunned by this revelation, and then bluntly tells them that they "suck at peddling meth," but offers to put them in touch with a cautious, low profile businessman who will buy their thirty-eight pounds of product in bulk. Later that day, Jesse asks Jane to leave his apartment; he feels responsible for Combo's death and needs to smoke some crystal, but doesn't want her to risk a relapse. Jane suggests a support group meeting, but Jesse rejects the idea. Jane starts to leave, but turns around and follows Jesse into his bedroom.
Walt goes to a local fast food restaurant, Los Pollos Hermanos, where he and Jesse are scheduled to meet Saul's businessman. Jesse arrives late, high, and agitated. Annoyed that they don't even know their contact's name, Jesse quickly leaves. However, Walt stays, hoping the businessman will show. Later, Skyler watches her unborn baby on an ultrasound monitor at her OB/GYN's office. Walt is late, but he arrives before Skyler decides to schedule a C-section rather than going through a potentially difficult labor. Meanwhile, Jesse returns to his messy apartment, where Jane has relapsed. The couple decide to go on an impromptu trip to Santa Fe.
At Beneke Fabricators, Skyler attends an office birthday party for Ted. Although she's reluctant at first, she grants Ted's birthday wish for a sultry rendition of Marilyn Monroe's "Happy Birthday, Mr. President". Ted kisses her on the cheek.
Walt calls Saul, complaining that the businessman never showed up for their meeting. Saul informs Walt that the contact was in fact there, but that he's no longer interested in working with them. Walt demands a second chance, but according to Saul, "with this particular individual, all you get is the one shot." Walt returns to Los Pollos Hermanos and sits at a booth, eating and thinking, until it dawns on him that the restaurant's amiable, unassuming manager is Saul's contact. The manager feigns ignorance when Walt reveals his suspicions, but Walt persists. Walt says that he understands Gus's cautiousness, and feels that he deserves a second chance. His demeanour changing instantly to cold, meticulous steel, Gus counters that Walt is "not a cautious man at all,” an proceeds to criticise Jesse for being late and high. Walt maintains that he can trust Jesse and assures him that he can move the thirty-eight pounds of meth at a moment's notice. Gus’s face remains unmoved , and he simply walks away, warning Walt, "You can never trust a drug addict." Pressing his luck, Walt asks if he will be in touch, and Gus reassumes his public mask and pleasantly confirms he has Walt’s number.
Skyler shows Ted some irregularities she discovered on his company's books. Ted tries to convince Skyler it's nothing, but eventually admits he's committing tax fraud to keep the company afloat and all of his workers employed. Skyler tells Ted that she won't turn him in, but also that she wants no part of what he is doing.
At his apartment, Jesse sits in his recliner listening as Skinny Pete leaves a voicemail recap of Combo's funeral. Jane arrives and introduces Jesse to heroin, handing him one of two two hypodermic needles. With swift precision, she mixes up a meth and heroin speedball. Jesse injects the speedball and is immediately overwhelmed by the resulting high.
At the high school, Walt's second cell phone vibrates in his classroom's ceiling while his students are taking an exam. Upon retrieving it after class, Walt reads a single text message: "POLLOS." Walt rushes to the Los Pollos Hermanos and is surprised to discover a different person running the restaurant. The manager on duty tells Walt that the man he mistook for the manager is actually the owner, Gustavo Fring. As Walt leaves, a henchman for Gus stops him and offers him $1.2 million for the thirty-eight pounds of meth, but also instructs him to deliver it to a local truck stop within the hour, or never show his face at the restaurant again. Racing away in his car, Walt leaves a phone message for Jesse: "I need the product now!"
Meanwhile, Skyler has decided to continue working for Ted despite knowing about his tax fraud. However, while she is sitting at her desk lamenting her decision, she goes into labor.
Reaching the duplex, Walt bangs on Jesse's front door. No one answers. Skyler tries to call Walt stands on Jesse's front porch, but he doesn't answer his phone. Walt rushes to Jesse's backyard and breaks down his back door with a flower pot. Walt tries to awaken a passed-out Jesse, frantically trying to find out where he stashed the meth. Jesse mumbles that the meth is under his kitchen sink before going under again.
While stuffing the bundles of meth into a garbage bag, Walt ignores another call from Skyler. When his phone chirps, Walt stops to read a text message: "BABY COMING!!!" He starts to smile, but realizes that he has to miss the birth of his daughter in order to make the meeting with Gus. Walt hoists the garbage bag over his shoulder and rushes out the door.
Mysterious person in Jesse's apartment on the left-hand side.

Having successfully delivered his thirty-eight pounds of meth to Gus, Walt races into the parking lot of an abandoned motel. There, he calls the hospital and learns that Skyler has given birth. Walt stashes a duffel bag inside his Aztek and races to Skyler's hospital room, where he tenderly holds his newborn daughter. However, he notices Ted, who had driven Skyler to the hospital. Walt runs home to retrieve Skyler's overnight bag and unload his duffel, which is packed with over $1 million cash.
The next morning, Jane is roused by a phone call from her father, Donald. When she tells Jesse that someone broke into his apartment through the back door, Jesse races into the kitchen and panics upon finding the meth missing. After Jane and Donald attend a support group meeting, the two talk at a coffee shop. Donald asks if Jane is seeing Jesse and is unconvinced when she says she isn't.
Meanwhile, at the White residence, Walt Jr. answers a silent phone call. Walt fights for the phone when it rings again, pretending it's about the new baby. When he's out of earshot, Walt berates Jesse for calling at his home number and when Jesse tells him that the meth is missing. A few moments later, Jesse notices four messages on his answering machine.
That evening, Hank and Marie head to the White residence for a family dinner, consisting of chicken from Los Pollos Hermanos. While they eat, Skyler tells the family that she plans to return to Beneke Fabricators; with Walt's upcoming surgery she will need to supplement her income. Late that night, Walt shows his new daughter, Holly, the cash he's hidden behind the wall insulation inside the garage. "Daddy did that for you," he says.
The next day, Jesse goes to Walt's classroom and angrily confronts him for taking the meth stash. In response, Walt angrily blames Jesse for being strung out during "the biggest deal of our lives" and forcing him to miss Holly's birth as a result. Walt refuses Jesse's demand of $480,000, saying he will kill himself within a week if he spends the money on dope. Jesse insists he is clean, but balks when Walt hands him a glass beaker and challenges him to take a urine test. Realizing he has been caught out, Jesse smashes the beaker against the chalkboard and storms out.
Back home, Junior proudly unveils his new website: SaveWalterWhite.com, where visitors can donate funds for Walt's surgery. Walt is mortified by the appeal for charity, but Skyler says that it would crush their son if Walt made him take it down, questioning why he is so offended. Saul tells Walt that he knows of a hacker in Belarus who will launder Walt's drug money through his son's website. Walt resents the idea, as this would mean his family would never know he was responsible for the cash. Meanwhile, a doped-out Jesse complains to Jane that Walt owes him $480,000; she is astonished by the amount.
The following day, Donald attends a support group meeting without Jane. Returning to the duplex, he catches her exiting Jesse's apartment. Barging past her, Donald enters the apartment and spots their stash of heroin. Enraged, he attacks Jesse, who defends himself with a baseball bat. Exasperated, Donald calls the police to report the couple, but relents when Jane promises to enter rehab the following day. However, after he leaves, Jane suggests that she and Jesse can do whatever they want once they receive Jesse's money. Having learned about Walt's background from Jesse, she calls Walt and threatens to ruin him if he doesn't deliver the money that night.
As Jesse and Jane contemplate whether Walt will cave to their demands, Skyler sends Walt to the store for diapers. Walt grabs a duffel containing Jesse's share of the cash and heads to the duplex. Walt insists on only handing over the money to Jesse, who angrily tells him that he won't see them again. Jane then slams the door in Walt's face. With the bundles of cash in both hands, Jane giddily says that the money will allow them to go anywhere and become anybody they want. Caught up in the moment, the couple dream about using their money to start a new life in New Zealand after they get clean.
Meanwhile, Walt goes to a bar and calls Skyler on a payphone, falsely telling her that he can't find the right size of diapers. He finds himself sitting next to Donald, unaware that he is Jane's father. The two men talk about daughters and family. Referring to Jesse as an unnamed "nephew" who's in trouble, Walt describes the frustration of knowing what's best for kids who refuse to listen. Taking the conversation to heart, Walt decides to return to Jesse's apartment in the hopes of talking sense to him.
After getting no answer at the front door, and breaking in through the back door as he had before, Walt finds Jesse and Jane passed out in bed. Walt is saddened upon seeing the used syringes on the bedside table. When he attempts to wake up Jesse, Jane inadvertently flops onto her back. Moments later, Jane starts retching and choking. Walt initially moves to help her — but after some contemplation, he pauses.
With Jesse still passed out beside her, Walt watches as Jane asphyxiates on her own vomit and ultimately dies. Shaken, Walt tries to recompose himself as a tear runs down his cheek. His heart, however, soon hardens as he also realizes the threat of Jane blackmailing him and taking Jesse away as his partner is no longer a concern.

In a continuation of the flashforward from previous episodes, workers in hazmat suits load the items collected from Walt's pool—including the charred, one-eyed pink teddy bear—into the back of a van belonging to the NTSB. As the van pulls out, the camera pans up over the White residence to reveal two giant pillars of smoke rising in the distance over Albuquerque.
Inside his apartment, Jesse frantically tries to revive Jane, who choked on her own vomit overnight. Distraught and panicking, Jesse calls Walt—unaware of his role in facilitating Jane's death—who assures him everything will be okay. Cuddling Holly in his arms, Walt assures Jesse, "I know who to call."
A short time later, a man named Mike Ehrmantraut drives to the apartment, having been sent there by Saul. Mike gathers Jesse's drug paraphernalia and cash, clearing away all the evidence. Smacking the shell-shocked Jesse into cognizance, Mike coaches him on how to respond to medical investigators when they arrive to collect the body and instructs him to not disclose that Mike was there.
At the White residence, Skyler and Walt Jr. are excited by the apparent donations being donated through SaveWalterWhite.com, unaware that the donations are in fact Walt's own laundered drug money. Skyler chides her husband for seeming unenthused. Meanwhile, Jane's father Donald drives to the duplex, leaving a voicemail warning her to be ready to go to rehab. However, when he arrives, Donald is distraught to find an ambulance on the scene. He immediately realizes what has happened.
Inside Jesse's apartment, Donald watches silently as paramedics move Jane's body into a cadaver bag. Jesse is being interviewed by the medical investigator in the next room, following Mike's rehearsed script. After answering a few questions by a policewoman, Donald notices Jane's "Apology Girl" sketch and leaves with it, with not even a glance towards a guilt-ridden Jesse.
At the DEA field office, Hank hits up his co-workers for donations to Walt's surgery fund. The team is then briefed on Combo's murder. Hank questions how a "dipshit, wannabe banger" with no street rep was dealing professional-grade meth, while "Blue Sky" has disappeared from New Mexico yet has begun to appear elsewhere around the Southwest. He maintains that Heisenberg is still at large and most likely in Albuquerque.
While Skyler and Junior continue monitoring the donation counter on SaveWalterWhite.com, Walt calls Saul and demands to know where he can find Jesse. Mike drives Walt to a dilapidated trap house known as "The Shooting Gallery". Against Mike's advice, Walt enters and locates a passed-out Jesse. As Walt insists on getting him help, Jesse begins to sob in the belief that he killed Jane. A saddened Walt is conscience-stricken by Jesse's anguish.
A grieving Donald, talking over the phone with Jane's mother, visits her apartment and searches for a suitable dress to put on Jane's body for her funeral. Meanwhile, as Junior continues watching the donation counter, Walt tells him to turn down the sound on the computer, claiming it's disturbing Holly. Skyler announces that, courtesy of Marie, the Albuquerque Journal will be interviewing Junior about his website. Later, Marie arranges for a local news station to interview Walt's family for a segment. An agonized Walt can barely fight back tears of guilt as Junior extols his virtues.
At the DEA office, Hank's boss, ASAC George Merkert, introduces him to three local businessmen who are donating to the agency, one of whom is Gus Fring. Noticing Walt's photo on Hank's donation jar, Gus asks Hank about him and learns that Walt is his brother-in-law who is fighting lung cancer. Gus slips a donation into the jar. Elsewhere, Walt takes Jesse to Serenity, a high-end rehab center. Sitting in a bathrobe by the pool, a despairing Jesse says, "What you said in the desert. I get it now… what you meant. I deserve whatever happens."
In the hospital, a nurse administers a relaxant to prep Walt for surgery. As the relaxant takes effect, Skyler asks Walt where his cell phone is so she can hold it for him. "Which one?" he groggily responds. Skyler is crestfallen. Walt is taken into surgery.
Several weeks after the operation, Walt and Skyler visit Dr. Delcavoli and Dr. Bravenec, who tell them that the operation was a success. Choosing her words carefully, Skyler asks whether Walt can now live independently, to which Dr. Bravenec says that he can. Meanwhile, Donald returns to work for the first time since Jane's death. It is revealed he works as an air traffic controller.
Upon returning home, Skyler tells Walt that she and the kids are visiting Hank and Marie for the weekend and that she wants Walt out of the house by the time she returns. As she packs up her things, Skyler reveals that Walt's lie about his second cell phone led her to unravel all of his other lies, learning that Gretchen and Elliott did not pay for his cancer treatment, that he faked his "fugue state" after going missing, and that he never visited his mother or told her that he had cancer. Walt follows Skyler outside to the driveway, promising to tell her the truth if she agrees to stay. "Whatever it is, I'm afraid to know," she replies before driving away.
At the air traffic control center, Donald corrects himself after identifying a charter plane, JM21, as "Jane Mike Two One" instead of "Juliet Mike Two One", having been momentarily being distracted with grief. Sweating, Donald keeps talking — trying to correct his error — but his radar screen shows JM21 on a collision course with a commercial airliner, Wayfarer 515.
As Walt sits ruminating next to his pool, he is suddenly startled by a massive explosion overhead. Walt looks up to see smoke and fire resulting from the collision of the two aircraft. Mouth agape, he watches debris fall from the sky, and witnesses a pink blur splashing into the pool—the half-burnt teddy bear. The screen transitions to the black and white of the flashforwards depicted throughout the season, as the teddy bear sinks to the bottom of the pool.
In a rural village in Mexico, men and women crawl on their bellies up a dusty, adobe-lined desert road. A Mercedes sedan stops alongside the procession. Two men exit the car; both wear expensive suits and cowboy boots tipped with silver skulls. The men begin to crawl with the others. The procession winds to a candlelit shrine to Santa Muerte, a Mexican folk deity representing death. The two men rise to their feet. One makes an offering, while the other pins something to the shrine: a crude sketch of Heisenberg.
Walt tries to burn his money
In Albuquerque, coverage of the Wayfarer 515 disaster dominates the news. In the week since the crash, Donald Margolis has been identified as the air traffic controller who, distracted by grief over his daughter's recent death, allowed the airliner to collide with a charter plane in midair. At the pool behind the White residence, a contrite Walt — fully aware of his culpability in the crash — dumps his drug money onto an outdoor grill and sets it ablaze. Seconds later, he second-guesses his decision and hurls the flaming grill into the pool. His robe sleeve having caught fire, he too jumps in after.
Meanwhile, Skyler meets with a divorce attorney who advises her that maintaining residence in the house will strengthen her position in a child custody case. Skyler explains that Walt is moving out that day. Questioned about the family's finances, Skyler momentarily freezes. "You'd be amazed what I've seen partners hide from one another," the lawyer says.
Hank helps Walt move out
Hank visits the house to help with the move just as Walt fishes the last of the cash — and the plastic eyeball belonging to the pink teddy bear from the crash — out of his pool. Wrestling a duffel bag full of drug money away from his brother-in-law, Hank asks, "What have you got in there? Cinder blocks?" After a thought, Walt replies, "Half a million in cash". Hank laughs, assuming that Walt is joking.
Jesse learning self-acceptance at rehab
At the Serenity rehab center, Jesse participates in a group therapy session in which the group leader states that self-acceptance and self-improvement as essential to transformation. The next day, Walt calls home from his new apartment. Walt Jr. picks up the phone and complains that no one is telling him what is going on between his parents. Over Skyler's objections, he arranges for Walt to drive him to school. Later, Walt receives a one-word text: "POLLOS."
The school assembly
At J. P. Wynne High School, a student assembly is called to discuss the recent tragedy. Walt is visibly uncomfortable as a student describes finding the remains of a crash victim on his lawn. Noticing this, Carmen encourages Walt to express himself. He tries to assuage his guilt by telling his increasingly incredulous audience to "look on the bright side" of what happened, using the higher death toll from the Tenerife disaster to suggest that the Wayfarer crash wasn't so bad by comparison. Carmen, finding his words inappropriate, cuts his speech short.
The Cousins
Outside a dilapidated desert farmhouse, the two men approach a clothesline. A young girl and her parents watch as the men exchange their suits for common workclothes, keeping only their guns and their cowboy boots. They deposit the keys to their Mercedes on a goat's horn and walk away.
Junior confronts his mom
When Walt drives Junior home, his son asks why he doesn't come into the house. Inside, Junior angrily lashes out at Skyler, under the impression that she is persecuting Walt. Marie, who is present, reasons that Junior is anxious to learn why his parents have separated, which she wants to know herself. Skyler tells Marie that she needs to be supportive without prying.
During another group therapy session, a despondent Jesse — blaming himself for Jane's death as well as the plane crash — asks the group leader, "Have you ever really hurt anybody?" He is shocked when the group leader admits that he accidentally killed his own daughter while intoxicated. "How do you not hate yourself?" asks Jesse. "I did, for many years," admits the group leader. But guilt and self-hate, he explains, stand in the way of true change.
Skyler visits Walt at his apartment and surprises him with divorce papers. When he resists, she bluntly accuses him of being a drug dealer. Drawing his connection with Jesse, she infers that Walt has been paying for his medical treatment by dealing marijuana. Shocked at how much she has figured out, Walt reluctantly admits that he cooks methamphetamine. Refusing to hear Walt's rationalizations, Skyler promises not to tell Hank or anyone else what Walt is doing — but only if he grants the divorce and stays away from the family. She hurriedly leaves.
A preoccupied Walt picks up Jesse at rehab
After Walt picks up Jesse from rehab, Jesse intimates that he is responsible for Jane's death and, by extension, the plane crash. Walt tries to make Jesse not blame himself for the tragedy, listing off a host of minor factors that he insists contributed more to the crash. "You either run from things, or you face them," Jesse replies. He's learned to accept about himself what Walt cannot: "I'm the bad guy."
Walt and Gus at Los Pollos Hermanos
Walt visits Los Pollos Hermanos and meets with Gus. Despite his great respect for Gus, Walt has decided to stop cooking meth. In response, Gus offers Walt $3 million for three months of his work. Walt still declines, stating that his family means more to him than any money he can make from continuing in the drug trade.
Meanwhile, hidden amid a farm truck's bales of straw, the two men sit with a group of undocumented immigrants being smuggled across the U.S.-Mexico border. A young man brags to the men about painting cars for gangsters in Michoacan, but quickly clams up when he notices the skulls on their boots. Hearing gunshots in the back, the truck driver stops to investigate. He flees when the men emerge from the back in the truck, and is subsequently shot in the back. The two men then set the truck and its murdered passengers ablaze. They silently walk away as the vehicle explodes.
  
As he drives to work, Walt listens to the song "A Horse with No Name" on his car radio. He is pulled over by an Albuquerque police officer, who writes him a ticket for driving with a cracked windshield. Walt tries to explain that the car was damaged by debris from the Wayfarer 515 crash, but to no avail. An increasingly agitated Walt rants about his ordeal, ignoring the officer's instructions to calm down. Moments later, he is thrust into a patrol car, his eyes swollen by pepper spray.
Walt under arrest
At the DEA field office, Hank briefs his team on the truck explosion on the border, speculating that the mass murder was "high-end cartel work." He receives a call from the Albuquerque Police. When Hank picks Walt up at the police station, Walt apologizes to the arresting officer and tells Hank that Skyler is refusing to let him see his kids.
Meanwhile, Jesse notices that his former house is for sale. Stopping to take a closer look, he runs into his father, who describes the extensive improvements they have made to the property, but demurs at giving Jesse a tour. When his father appears unenthused at inviting him for dinner, a hurt Jesse leaves.
Saul visits Walt at his apartment, where Walt admits that Skyler now knows that he is cooking meth. Saul tries to assure Walt that she will not turn him in to the authorities, as she and the rest of the family would have just as much to lose from Walt's arrest as Walt himself. Walt refuses to return to cooking, stating that all he cares about is the family he has now lost. After leaving the apartment, Saul contacts Mike and tells him they have a problem that needs monitoring.
At the White residence, Walt Jr. angrily confronts Skyler for preventing Walt from seeing him, claiming to have seen him in a depressed state at school. After he storms off, Hank questions Skyler on whether she has a right to keep Walt from the kids, to which she states that the matter is none of his business. After they leave the dinner, Hank speculates to Marie that Skyler separated from Walt because he had an affair. Marie doubts this, however, saying that Skyler would have confided in her by now if that were the case.
The Cousins visit Don Hector
Jesse visits Saul, who hands over the money he's been holding for Jesse since he went into rehab. As Saul complains about Walt refusing to return to meth cooking, Jesse enlists him for carrying out a different job. Meanwhile, the two men responsible for the truck explosion – Marco and Leonel Salamanca – visit their uncle Hector Salamanca, who has been sent to a retirement home after Tuco's death. One slowly draws his fingers across a Ouija board while the other records the letters that prompt Hector to ring his bell. Slowly, the three men spell out a name: WALTER WHITE.
Skyler and Ted discuss bookkeeping irregularities
At Beneke Fabricators, Skyler confronts Ted over cooking his company's books, asking what he would do if his children found out. In response, Ted hopes they would understand that he did it for their sake, only attempting to keep his head above water. Skyler ponders his answer in silence. Meanwhile, Junior shows up at Walt's apartment with a packed bag. Though pleased to see him, Walt calls Skyler and arranges to drive him home. On the way there, he tells his dejected son that his mother has her reasons for the current arrangement.
Saul meets with Jesse's parents and their lawyer about purchasing the house on behalf of an unnamed client. Their price is $875,000, but Saul stuns them with his counteroffer of $400,000 in cash. As they are about to leave, Saul blindsides them with knowledge that they have feloniously neglected to the divulge the existence of the basement meth lab in their disclosure statement, threatening to encumber the property with a lawsuit if they do not capitulate.
Walt throwing pizza onto the roof of the White residence.
Walt arrives home with Junior — and a family-sized take-out pizza — but Skyler won't let him enter the house despite his pleas. When she shuts the door in his face, a frustrated Walt hurls the pizza onto the roof of the garage and drives away.
The next morning, Walt wakes up face-down on the floor of his apartment as Skyler leaves an angry voicemail complaining about the pizza on her roof, threatening to get a restraining order if he doesn't control himself.
Meanwhile, Jesse's parents are moving the last of their things out of the house when they spot Jesse's car pulling up. Jesse walks towards the house, ignoring his parents' protests. They insist he has to leave — the new owners are on their way. They are shocked to learn that Jesse is the new owner of the house, having used Saul to blackmail them into selling the property. Jesse enters the house and shuts the door in their faces without another word.
At the behest of Saul, Mike installs surveillance equipment in the rear of the White residence. Walt arrives at the house, his Aztek loaded with belongings, but discovers that Skyler has changed the locks. Seeing Walt break in through the crawl space, Mike heads back to his car. However, Mike notices another car pulling up; Marco and Leonel step out and, with a large mirror-polished silver axe in hand, enter Walt's house. Mike makes a quick phone call to Victor, who standing alongside Gus at an industrial laundry.
The Cousins waiting Walt in the White residence
Marco and Leonel sit on Walt's bed, waiting for Walt to get out of the shower. One of them notices the plastic eyeball from the pink teddy bear among Walt's belongings and idly examines it before tossing it back into the suitcase. As Walt finishes his shower and dries himself, Marco receives a text message bearing a single word: "POLLOS." He shows Leonel the text and the two exchange a look. When Walt enters the bedroom, the Cousins have vanished. Walt immediately notices the misplaced eyeball and suspects he's not alone. He looks around the house, unaware just how close he was to death.
In a flashback sequence, Hank's DEA informant, Tortuga, holds court at a seedy Mexican cantina. He receives a birthday present — a large tortoise — from "El Jefe," his boss. Tortuga is delighted with the gift until the boss writes "HOLA DEA" on the reptile's back. The Cousins step out of a back room; one holds Tortuga down as the other cuts off his head with a machete.
Mike, watching Walt from outside his house after the Cousins' clandestine visit, phones Gus to report that he is still alive. Meanwhile, Skyler arrives home to find Walt inside the house. She threatens to call the police, but Walt insists that he is staying. Skyler dials 9-1-1 and asks the dispatcher to send officers immediately. Recalling Saul's advice, Walt stays calm and grades school papers as he waits for the police to arrive.
Returning home, Walt Jr. is elated to see his father and is outraged when he learns that his mother called the cops on him. Skyler tells one of the officers that Walt is trespassing but learns because she has not legally separated or divorced from Walt, that Walt has not behaved violently, and that his name is on the lease of the house, he is within his rights to stay. When the officer asks Skyler if Walt has broken any laws, she can't bring herself to respond. When the police leave without arresting Walt, she coldly welcomes him home.
Jesse listening to Jane's voice
Jesse sits alone on the floor in his empty house, calling Jane's old cell phone number to hear her voice on the voicemail greeting. Saul pays Jesse a visit, asking him to convince Walt to begin cooking again. Jesse agrees to try, then shows him the door. After Saul departs, Jesse resumes dialing Jane's number.
An unenthused Hank reveals to Gomez that he is wanted back in El Paso. Meanwhile, the Cousins escort Hector Salamanca to a meeting with Gus and Juan Bolsa, Tortuga's former boss. Bolsa explains how Hector's nephew, Tuco, who Hector raised as his own son and who took over Hector's business, died because of Walt's betrayal. The Cousins demand the right to exact vengeance against Walt on Tuco's behalf. However, Gus requests that they postpone vengeance until his business with Walt is concluded. Privately, Bolsa warns Gus to finish the business with Walt quickly or risk losing the cartel's favor. As for the Cousins, Bolsa can't guarantee they'll listen to him and delay their revenge.
Walt, sleeping on the floor of Holly's bedroom, wakes up when he hears his daughter crying in Skyler's room. Walt asks if he can come in and help, but Skyler doesn't respond. When he asks to use her bathroom, she remains silent. Frustrated, Walt urinates in the kitchen sink. Later, Skyler updates her divorce lawyer about Walt's return home. The lawyer encourages Skyler to give her all of the facts, reminding Skyler that attorney-client privilege ensures the confidentiality of anything she discloses. After contemplating, Skyler admits that Walt is a meth cook. Skyler's lawyer encourages her to immediately sue for divorce, but Skyler expresses reluctance, reasoning that she doesn't want her son to find out that his father is a criminal when Walt may eventually die from his cancer anyway.
At a dive bar, Hank tells Gomez that errands and packing are delaying his return to El Paso. Hank fights back an anxiety attack in the bathroom, then leaves to stash his gun in his SUV. Returning to the bar, Hank picks a fight with two "dirt-balls," repeatedly bashing one man's head against the floor before finally identifying himself as DEA.
A forlorn Jesse repeatedly calls Jane's voicemail until he hears a new message that her number is no longer in service. He is crushed at the loss of the very last remnants he has of Jane. The next morning, Jesse drives the RV into the desert, determined to start cooking again. Meanwhile, at home, Walt leaves a duffel bag stuffed with cash in full view. He asks Skyler if they can talk when she discovers it.
At DEA field office, Gomez tells Hank that ASAC Merkert wants to see him. As far as Merkert knows, the suspects attacked Hank while Gomez was outside, calling for backup. Gomez tells Hank that he didn't mention in his report "that you left your gun under the car seat before you went back inside."
Back at home, Walt reasons with Skyler that this money will put their kids through college and cover the mortgage and other expenses after he's gone, something she could never afford on a part time bookkeeping salary. Skyler glowers at Walt accusingly, listens to him, but utters not a word.
At Beneke Fabricators, Skyler approaches Ted in the breakroom and seductively touches his shoulder. They kiss surreptitiously, after which Skyler asks whether his kids are home. When Skyler returns to the White residence that evening, Junior and Louis Corbett are watching TV while Walt cooks a pot-roast. Walt is eager to hear how she feels, after their talk. Skyler coldly tells him that, "I fucked Ted"—her only course of revenge. Skyler calls the boys down to dinner, leaving a wounded Walt standing speechless in the kitchen.
At a desert gas station, Jesse fills up the RV. Realizing that he's short on cash, he tries to charm the cashier girl into taking blue meth as payment instead. Just then, a police officer enters the store, after which Jesse piles on the pressure for her to take the deal. As the officer gets to the counter behind Jesse, she finally relents and takes the meth.
Walt tries to break Ted's office window.
Mike visits Saul and plays an audio recording of Walt and Skyler's bitter argument over her affair with Ted. Later, Walt heads to Beneke Fabricators to confront Ted, who refuses to see him. As a mortified Skyler and her co-workers watch, Walt tries and fails to throw a huge potted plant through a window into Ted's office. Three men arrive and toss Walt out the front door. Seconds later, Mike drives up in his car and whisks Walt away.
At his office, Saul stages what he calls an "intervention" for Walt. Wondering how Saul knew where to find him, Walt realizes that Saul had his house bugged. When Saul admits he did and provocatively gives a crude description of Skyler's affair, Walt tackles him to the ground. Walt angrily tells Saul he is fired while Saul tells Walt that he will no longer launder Walt's drug money through his son's website.
At Walt's insistence, Mike removes the bugs from his house. Before he leaves, Mike notices a drawing of a scythe drawn on the street outside of the house, presumably left by the Cousins.
At Walt's high school, Carmen calls Walt into her office to discuss his absenteeism and his erratic behavior in class. Walt awkwardly tries to make a pass at Carmen, causing her to be further alarmed at his strange behavior. As a result, Carmen places Walt on indefinite leave. Meanwhile, a somber Marie drops an apprehensive Hank off at the airport for his flight to El Paso. After Marie drives off, Hank receives a call from the Albuquerque sheriff: the blue meth has reappeared. Hank excitedly hails a taxicab back to town, abandoning his El Paso assignment.
In the high school parking lot, Walt is about to pack a box of his work items into his Aztek. Jesse drives up to him and shows off the blue meth he has cooked. Walt angrily takes umbrage at Jesse cooking Walt's formula without him, nitpicking supposed flaws in Jesse's process. Walt further refuses Jesse's request to set up a meeting with Gus. Jesse drives off in a huff, with Walt's box forgotten atop his car, which crashes onto the pavement as he speeds away.
Skyler and Ted continue their affair.
At Beneke Fabricators, a co-worker ignores Skyler's efforts at small talk and glares at her as she walks out of the copy room. Later that day, Skyler and Ted have sex at his house. Afterward, Ted asks Skyler what went wrong with her marriage, as he doesn't want to make the same mistake with her. Skyler replies that she doesn't feel comfortable talking about it.
In an interrogation room, Hank and Gomez attempt to coax information out of a tweaker about the source of the blue meth. The tweaker recalls that the man's name began with "M". Hank wants to pursue this as a possible Heisenberg lead, but Gomez thinks it's inconsequential and that Hank should report to El Paso. "I'm gettin' tired of all the second guessing," Hank replies tersely. Meanwhile, Jesse presents Saul with his bag of meth, revealing that he cooked it himself when Walt refused to return to cooking. Jesse begs Saul to hook him a deal with Gus.
Mike meets Gus in a parking lot and reports that Walt is physically fine but mentally "a disaster," and unlikely to return to cooking voluntarily. Describing the scythe drawing outside his house, Mike asks why Gus doesn't tell Walt that he will die without Gus's protection. Gus responds that he doesn't believe fear to be an effective motivator. Mike relays Saul's request for a meeting with Jesse. Gus reiterates his policy against dealing with junkies, but changes his mind upon learning that Walt and Jesse aren't getting along.
Hank notices the ATM camera.
While following up on the tweaker's tip, Hank listens to an urgent voicemail message from ASAC Merkert about his refusal to report to El Paso. At the gas station, Hank catches the cashier girl in a lie. Sobbing, she admits that a guy with blue eyes and an RV paid her with meth, which she passed along to a friend. The gas station's security camera doesn't work, but Hank notices an ATM whose camera points at the gas pumps.
Over an awkward breakfast with his parents, Junior reports that donations to SaveWalterWhite.com have ceased. He suggests that since Walt is on leave, his dad can watch Holly so that Skyler doesn't have to bring the baby to work. "We'll see," Skyler says.
At an isolated underpass, Jesse delivers the meth to Victor, but complains when he only receives half the payment. Victor replies that it's "your half" before he drives off. Meanwhile, Hank meets with Merkert at the DEA field office and, forced to give a definitive answer, tells him that he will not report to El Paso because he is "close to something big here." Quietly understanding, Merkert tells him to "get to it then".
As he is driving, Walt learns through a radio report that Donald Margolis, Jane's father, has attempted suicide by gunshot. As Walt grimaces with further guilt at the news, a car pulls alongside him at a red light. Victor tosses a paper bag stuffed with money -- "your half"—into Walt's car before speeding away. Walt ponders the cash until the light turns green.

In a flashback to the pilot, Walt hands Jesse all of his remaining life savings to purchase an RV. Instead, Jesse heads to a strip club with Skinny Pete and Combo and spends the cash on a night-long bender filled with lap dances and champagne. Come morning, Jesse panics when he realizes that only $1,400 remains. However, Combo sells him an RV at that price in "a no paperwork-type deal," stealing the vehicle from a driveway.
After another round of sex, Skyler basks in the luxury of Ted's heated bathroom floor, wondering about its cost. Ted offers to let her keep a few things at his house, obviously growing attached.
That evening, Walt sits in Holly's closet, talking on the phone with Jesse. Walt denies dealing with Gus behind Jesse's back, but Jesse demands that Walt hand over his missing other half of the cash payment. Walt counters that it's his formula and he never gave him permission to use it before angrily handing up.
At a campground, Hank ignores Gomez's suggestion to wait for a warrant before searching an RV. He scales the vehicle and peers through its roof vent, startling an older couple playing canasta in their underwear. After mollifying the outraged couple, Hank suggests following up a few more leads, but Gomez says that he can't as he still needs to pack: he's leaving for El Paso.
Hank returns home to shower. Marie urges him to share his feelings about Gomez taking the promotion that Hank refused. When Marie tells him that his past experience in El Paso makes it understandable for him not to go back, Hank angrily replies that he's only staying in Albuquerque to pursue important leads in his Heisenberg investigation.
Walt and Gus at Los Pollos Hermanos.
Walt visits Los Pollos Hermanos and chides Gus for pretending to collaborate with Jesse, someone clearly below Gus' high standards, just to compel Walt to begin cooking again. Gus apologizes for being "so transparent" and invites Walt to take a drive with him, saying that he has something he wants to show Walt. Meanwhile, Skyler receives a call from Marie, who is worried that Hank's brush with death is causing him to change as a person. Skyler contemplates on the truth of her words.
The new state-of-the-art superlab.
Gus drives Walt to Lavandería Brillante, an industrial laundry facility, where a huge washing machine conceals the entrance to a secret basement beneath the building. Inside is a vast state-of-the-art superlab for Walt to use. Although very impressed with the equipment Gus has collected for the lab, Walt again declines his offer, saying that he's already made too many bad decisions. Gus counters that if his decisions were made for his family's welfare, they were not bad. "A man provides," Gus tells Walt. "And he does it even when he's not appreciated, or respected, or even loved—because he's a man."
After another tryst with Ted, Skyler fixes her makeup in his bathroom. Ted suggests they head out for some Thai food, but she declines his invitation. Suddenly uncomfortable with the luxurious surroundings of Ted's house, she looks down at the insulated floor, grabs a towel and stands on it. That night, at the White residence, Skyler moves to comfort a fussy Holly. She notices Walt looking at their daughter longingly but not daring to touch her. Skyler reluctantly allows Walt to pick up and comfort the baby; Walt is elated with the peace offering.
At the DEA field office the next day, Hank is dismayed when his final RV lead hits a dead end. He asks his secretary Janice to check again with the DMV to see if any RVs were overlooked during their first search. At the farewell party for Gomez, Hank hands him a statuette of Jesus Malverde, the patron saint of drug dealers, alluding to his experiences in Gomez's new beat of El Paso. Janice informs Hank that the DMV has indeed discovered an additional RV; its registration wasn't renewed, but the vehicle was never reported as non-operational, destroyed or stolen.
At home, Skyler notices Walt's duffel bag in Holly's closet, finding a pile of drug money inside. She meets with her divorce lawyer, admitting to her affair with Ted and to finding the cash. Skyler's lawyer asks if she is looking for permission to keep the drug money, and warns her that if she will be become an accessory after the fact if she doesn't leave Walt.
When Skyler returns home, she's surprised to find that Walt has removed his money and belongings from Holly's room, and has left the signed divorce papers in her crib. Skyler is taken aback, not quite sure how she feels now that she's gotten what she wanted.
Meanwhile, at his office, Saul attempts to calm an agitated Jesse. When Walt arrives, Saul offers him ten percent of Jesse's future meth profits as a goodwill gesture, then asks that Walt turn over the other half of the money from Jesse's deal with Gus. Walt hands Jesse the cash, telling him that it will be the last money he will ever earn in the drug business, informing Jesse that Gus was only using him to entice Walt to start cooking again. Saul quickly turns on Jesse and negotiates a fee for laundering the $3 million Walt will earn from Gus. Jesse storms out of Saul's office and smashes Walt's windshield with a chunk of concrete.
Hank collecting evidence at Combo's house.
Hank visits the house the RV was registered to and asks its former owner, Mrs. Ortega, why she never reported it stolen. Mrs. Ortega states that she wanted to spare her son, Combo, from being charged for theft. In Combo's bedroom, Hank spots a photograph of Combo and Jesse, taken the night Jesse blew Walt's money at the strip club.
On a Tohajiilee Indian Reservation outside of Albuquerque, a tribal police officer is dispatched to investigate the possible disappearance of an elderly woman. Investigating the woman's property, the officer finds her body behind the outhouse and evidence that someone else has taken up residence inside the house. The officer is confronted by one of the Cousins, Leonel, who distracts him while the other, Marco, sneaks up from behind and slaughters him with the axe.
Walter watching a model condo for purchase.
Skyler calls Walt to discuss the signed divorce papers she found in Holly's crib. Skyler objects to the idea of Walt using his drug money to pay child support, only to contend that Walt has been using that money to pay their bills for the past few months. Walt is looking at a model condo, which he offers to buy with its furnishings. Meanwhile, the Cousins enter Los Pollos Hermanos. Gus watches as they sit down in a booth without ordering anything.
At Jesse's house, the blue meth Jesse has made without Walt dazzles Badger. Jesse invites Badger and Skinny Pete to rejoin him in the business. Jesse proposes that Badger get Clovis to fix up the RV while Skinny Pete procures supplies. As Skinny Pete and Badger depart, they have no idea that Hank is watching them from his SUV parked down the street. Hank recognizes Badger and can hardly contain his glee.
Walt drives Junior, who is sullen about the impending divorce, to school. Elsewhere, Gus arrives at Los Pollos Hermanos and sees the Cousins sitting at their booth. Gus assures his manager that the Cousins are doing nothing wrong, instructing to leave them be. Nonetheless, he does seem annoyed by their persistence.
On his first day of work at the superlab, Walt meets his new assistant, Gale Boetticher, a specialist in X-ray crystallography with a libertarian attitude regarding the use of drugs by consenting adults. Gale is enthused about cooking with Walt and working in the superlab. Prompted by Walt, he recites "When I Heard the Learn'd Astronomer," Walt Whitman's poem about the exhilaration of experiencing scientific wonders first-hand.
Meanwhile, Hank, still staking out Jesse's house, receives a call from Marie and is asked when he's coming home. Hank insists that he must stay where he is until Jesse leads him to the RV or does something illegal. Remembering that Jesse was once alleged to have sold pot to Walt, Marie suggests Hank talk to him on the grounds that he might know something. When Hank calls Walt and starts to explain his theory that the RV is being used as a mobile meth lab, Walt realizes that Hank is closing in on Jesse.
Walt calls Jesse, but hangs up before speaking out of fear of the line being tapped. He then calls Saul and tells him that Hank knows about the RV, which is covered in physical evidence of his presence. Saul tells Walt to get rid of the RV, but Walt is unable to decide what to next. Walt races to the repair yard and orders Clovis and Badger to destroy the RV. Badger tips off Jesse, rushes out of his house and drive to the repair yard, unaware he's being trailed by Hank. Meanwhile, Gus, frustrated with the Cousins lurking in his restaurant, approaches them and arranges an off-site meeting: "Sunset."
At a junkyard, Walt discusses the demolition of the RV with the junkyard's owner, Old Joe, who assures Walt the vehicle will be destroyed and recycled. Walt is alone in the RV when Jesse barges in, confronting him over attempting to get rid of the RV behind his back. Seconds later, Hank drives up to the RV. Walt reprimands Jesse for leading Hank right to them.
After Hank pounds on the door of the RV, Walt strains to hold the door shut when he tries to pry it open with a crowbar. Old Joe confronts Hank, challenging him on whether he has probable cause to search the RV. Their argument evolves into a debate over whether the RV should legally be considered a vehicle or a domicile. If it is the latter, its residents would be constitutionally protected against unlawful search and seizure.
Walt and Jesse inside the RV as Hank is investigating outside.
An increasingly frustrated Hank rips off the duct tape covering the bullet holes in the RV's door, reasoning that a firearm was discharged inside the RV and that gives him probable cause to search it. Prompted by Walt, Jesse asks how Hank could have known that the holes were there before Hank removed the tape. When Jesse asserts that the RV is his domicile, Hank walks back to his car and calls ASAC Merkert to obtain a search warrant. Walt gets an idea and contacts Saul.
Saul's secretary, Francesca, poses as an Albuquerque police officer and dials Hank's number, telling him that Marie has been involved in a car accident and is being airlifted to a hospital. Fearing the worst, Hank leaps into his SUV and drives away from the junkyard. When he reaches the hospital, he realizes he has been tricked when Marie, alive and well, calls him on his cell phone to make plans for dinner. Back at the junkyard, a forklift rips apart the RV and loads its remains into a crusher while Jesse and Walt look on relieved.
At sunset, Gus and the Cousins meet in the desert. Gus reiterates they must back off Walt and asks why they want to kill him. He reasons that while Walt may have betrayed their cousin Tuco, someone else pulled the trigger. The Cousins, citing Bolsa, tell Gus that DEA agents are off-limits to them. Gus replies that north of the border is his territory, so on his orders, he gives them permission to kill Hank.

In a flashback to 1980's Mexico, two young boys fight over a toy while their uncle, Hector Salamanca, disparages the "chicken man" during a phone call. When Hector finishes the call, one of the boys, Leonel, complains that his brother Marco broke the toy. When Leonel says that he wishes his brother dead, Hector dunks Marco's head in a tub of icy water. When Leonel hits Hector in the face, he finally releases Marco, having caught his lesson that "family is all". In the present, the now-grown Cousins light candles at a makeshift Santa Muerte shrine. In the center, they place a photo of Hank.
Furious that he was tricked into believing that his wife was in hospital, Hank violently attacks Jesse at his house, knocking him to the floor and punching him in the face until he's unconscious and bleeding. Realizing he's gone too far, Hank stops himself and calls for an ambulance. As Jesse is being taken away by paramedics, ASAC Merkert approaches Hank and advises that he talk to a lawyer.
Walt, Saul, and Jesse at the hospital.
At the hospital, Walt comes to Jesse's hospital room to find Saul, eager to get Jesse off on grounds of police brutality. When Walt asks what Jesse plans to do next, Jesse says he will set about to destroy Hank's life. Further, Jesse plans to start cooking on his own again and will give up Walt if he gets caught. Outside the room, Walt tells Saul that Jesse will eventually "come around", but Saul warns that they will have to discuss "options" for dealing with Jesse if he doesn't.
At the DEA field office, Hank makes a statement about what happened at the junkyard, but invokes the Fifth Amendment when it comes to his actions at Jesse's house. With Jesse is filing charges, the detectives interviewing Hank ask to photograph his bruised knuckles for the record. After he leaves the office, Hank meets Marie at the elevator. She holds Hank as he sobs on the ride down, but they compose themselves before they reach the lobby.
Skyler visits Walt at his new condo to asks if the situation between Hank and Jesse will blow back on him, then pleads with Walt to convince Jesse not to press charges. Later, at the superlab, Walt arrives at work to discover that Gale has already performed several preliminary tasks for the day's cook. "This might be the beginning of a beautiful friendship," Gale jokes. Walt is surprised, but not convinced.
In the desert, the Cousins meet with a talkative arms dealer who is selling a wide array of weapons from the back of a trailer truck. He gives them a free hollow point bullet — nicknamed "Black Death" — and shows off his bulletproof vest, which the Cousins test by shooting him point blank. When the arms dealer survives, they purchase two vests and leave him on the floor complaining about possible broken ribs.
In the superlab, Walt angrily chastises Gale of making an error. While Gale insists that he followed Walt's instructions, Walt says that he entered the incorrect temperature and that the batch needs to be dumped. Later, Walt calls Gus and tells him that Gale isn't working out, requesting that he be replaced with Jesse. When Walt reminds Gus that he promised to give him the full run of the lab, Gus begrudgingly allows for Jesse to return.
At the Schrader residence, Hank rejects Marie's suggestion to lie about his confrontation with Jesse. When she asserts that Jesse is just a lowlife and Hank's more deserving, he replies that he is supposed to be "better than that". Hank admits that he has been unravelling since he shot Tuco, and intimates that he thinks he is "done as a cop".
Walt visits Jesse in the hospital and pitches the job in the superlab, but Jesse initially rejects the proposal as a ploy to save Hank. Walt says he just wants to be equal partners again, reminding Jesse that he will be earning $1.5 million. Jesse states that it isn't the money he is rejecting, but Walt himself, stating that his life has been ruined ever since the two of them started cooking together. In a last attempt to mollify Jesse, Walt admits that the meth Jesse cooked alone is as good as his own. When he drives back to his condo, Walt receives a phone call from Jesse finally agreeing to reestablish their partnership.
At the DEA office, Hank admits to assaulting Jesse. When he refuses to amend his statement fraudulently to place him (and by extension the agency) in a better light, Merkert has no other choice but suspend him without pay, forcing him to surrender his gun and badge. As Hank leaves, he learns from Merkert that Jesse is not pressing charges after all. When a surprised Hank asks why, Merkert muses that he might have a guardian angel.
Later, Hank visits a mall purchasing gifts for Marie. As he's about to leave in his SUV, Hank receives a phone call in which an electronically disguised voice warns that he has one minute before two men show up to kill him. Hank, defenseless without his gun, scans the parking lot. After one minute passes, Leonel appears and shoots out the rear window, hitting Hank in the arm. Hank throws his SUV into reverse and pins Leonel against the car behind him. Marco, striding toward Hank's driver's-side window, fires multiple shots and hits Hank in the side as Hank grabs Leonel's gun and dives out of the car. Marco shifts Hank's car into drive, releasing Leonel. A badly wounded Leonel tells his brother to "finish him".
Hank manages to shoot before Marco kills him.
Marco strides back toward Hank, shooting a passerby along the way. As Marco reloads, Hank surprises him from behind and shoots him with Leonel's gun, unaware that he's wearing a bulletproof vest. Marco shoots Hank twice in the chest. After a badly injured Hank drops to the ground, Marco decides to use the axe to kill him. Hank grabs Leonel's gun and notices a "Black Death" bullet that Marco dropped on the ground. He fumbles reloading the gun as Marco returns. At the last possible moment, Hank fires the single round into Marco's head, killing him. The falling axe lodges itself in the pavement a few feet away from a bleeding Hank.
A heavily-bruised Jesse is wheeled out of the hospital by an orderly. As he waits outside for his ride, an ambulance arrives carrying a critically wounded Hank. Jesse watches as two emergency room doctors work with paramedics to unload Hank, and follows them as they wheel Hank into the operating room for immediate surgery. Jesse returns outside, where he is eventually picked up by Skinny Pete in his Thunderbird. When Skinny Pete sees Jesse's injuries and asks if he's okay, Jesse smiles and replies, "Actually, I'm great."
In the superlab, Walt tries to fire Gale without hurting his feelings. When Gale pushes for an explanation, Walt tried to use a musical analogy, saying that he is "classical" while Gale is "more jazz". At that moment, Jesse arrives and loudly marvels at the setup in the lab, leaving Gale more confused. When Walt wants to get right to work, Jesse realizes that Walt is unaware that Hank has been shot.
The Whites and Schraders with the DEA in the waiting room.
Walt rushes into a hospital waiting room where Skyler, Marie, Gomez and ASAC Merkert are assembled. Merkert explains that all the DEA knows is that Hank was attacked by two cartel hitmen, and that he killed one of the assassins and critically wounded the other despite sustaining four shots. Marie denounces Gomez and Merkert for making Hank surrender his gun before the shooting. She further blames Walt, saying the entire situation wouldn't have started if he hadn't supposedly bought pot from Jesse. Skyler comes to Walt's defense, insisting it wasn't his fault. Crying, Marie apologizes.
Several DEA agents and police officers offer to donate blood in support of Hank. An impatient Jesse pages Walt, who tells him to sit tight and not cook until he gets to the lab. After Walt hangs up, Skyler suggests they all get breakfast. Walt asks if she knows who was on the phone; Skyler smiles sadly and walks away. In the cafeteria, Marie complains about the dirty silverware and declares the hospital a deathtrap. Sensing she is about to spiral out of control, Walt intervenes. After relating his own anxieties before his surgery in the same hospital, Walt tells Marie, "I survived this place. And I'm not half the man your husband is."
At Los Pollos Hermanos, Gus receives a frantic phone call from Juan Bolsa, who contends that the Cousins would never have shot Hank without approval. Bolsa concedes the next drug shipment it will be delayed indefinitely, vowing that he'll learn the truth about the attack from Leonel, the surviving Cousin. Gus, learning that Leonel has survived, plots a way to tie the loose end.
A doctor announces that Hank is out of surgery. On the way out to run errand for the family, Walt walks into the lobby to find Gomez and other DEA agents holding vigil. Gomez invites Walt to join them in visiting Leonel's ICU room. There, Walt sees that the injuries Leonel sustained during the shooting have caused both of his legs to be amputated. Sensing the group's presence, Leonel turns to look at them, and recognizes Walt. He sits up, tears at the tubes attached to his body, and pushes himself onto the floor, all the while glaring up at Walt. Utterly seething, Leonel drags himself toward him, trailing blood from his stumps, before doctors subdue and drag him back onto the bed.
Stuck in the superlab, Jesse becomes bored and amuses himself by playing with the equipment, such as inflating a hazmat suit with an extractor tube. However, his fun is cut short when Victor catches him and asks why there isn't any cooking. When Jesse contacts Walt about Victor's visit, but a distracted Walt asks if he remembers Tuco mentioning his cousins coming up from Mexico during their captivity in the desert. Jesse thinks he does, but presses Walt about their approaching deadline.
Walt delivers toiletry supplies to his to his family in a waiting room, as well as a book that Hank gave to Junior about the agents who pursued Pablo Escobar. Walt is distracted by a phone call from Gus, lying to him about being "hard at work" and blaming his inability to meet the week's meth quota on Gale's mistakes. He promises to deliver 400 pounds by next week. Later, Walt asks Gomez if the DEA knows who was behind the shooting, and whether other assassins could be on their way. Gomez assures Walt that the attack on Hank was their one attempt and they failed. Gomez's cell rings, and he spreads the word that food is on it's way: Gus is personally delivering fried chicken for every cop in the building. Walt turns pale at the turn of events.
In the waiting room, Walt watches Gus console Marie, knowing that Gus is now aware that he had lied about his whereabouts. Walt's family and ASAC Merkert thank Gus for offering a $10,000 reward for information about the shooting, while Gus mentions that he previously met Hank during a visit to the DEA field office. Walt approaches Gus as he walks out, realizing that he knew all along about his brother-in-law being a DEA agent. Gus replies that he investigates everyone with whom he does business. When Walt asks if Gus's presence is a message to him, Gus says, "I hide in plain sight, same as you." Walt expresses fear for his family's safety, but Gus assures him that the remaining gunman is unlikely to survive.
It is revealed that Gus's fried chicken delivery was just a distraction. While the cops are preoccupied, Mike sneaks into Leonel's room and administers him a lethal injection. Leonel flat-lines, and despite the efforts of doctors and cops to revive him, he dies just as Walt, Gomez and others show up at his room. Amid the commotion, Mike slips away unnoticed, discarding the syringe he just used to kill Leonel.
Gus smiles as he listens to Juan Bolsa's death.
Upon returning to Los Pollos Hermanos, Gus receives another call from Bolsa, who complains that pressure from the U.S. government in the wake of Hank's shooting has brought the Mexican Federales to his residence. Bolsa accuses Gus of betraying him, threatening to pay a visit when things calm down. However, Bolsa is soon gunned down by the Mexican authorities while attempting to escape. Gus listens impassively to Bolsa's demise, smiles, then disposes of the cell phone.
Walt sits with his sleeping family in the waiting room. The doctor enters to inform Marie that she is finally permitted to see Hank. Marie insists that Walt, Skyler, and Junior accompany her. The family solemnly enters Hank's room. As the Whites look on, Marie kisses Hank's forehead and takes his hand.
A television commercial for Los Pollos Hermanos extols the chain's (apocryphal) history and the secret to its signature chicken. The sequence transitions to Walt and Jesse in the superlab, handing off a shipment of blue meth, is sent to Gus's chicken farm. Victor oversees workers as they put plastic bags of meth into specially UV-marked tubs of fry batter for distribution across the Southwest. As the trucks are loaded up and leave the facility, Gus's silhouette can be seen watching them depart.
Walt and Jesse cook a batch that yields slightly more than required. Jesse wants to save the extra product for the next batch, but Walt insists they send it to Gus. Having crunched the number, Jesse grumbles that Gus will gross $96 million to their measly $3 million. Walt replies that Jesse should be happy to be a millionaire.
At the hospital, Gomez visits Hank and shows him a map detailing where blue meth has been found, crediting him with correctly predicting the product's reappearance. Hank does not take much comfort from the news; he's in too much pain. Skyler watches Walt absorb this—and Hank's revelation that he received a call warning him of the Cousins' impending attack, which is the only reason he survived. In the parking lot, Walt tells Skyler he had nothing to do with the shooting and assures her the family is safe.
Jesse at a group therapy session.
Jesse attends a meeting of his support group, where he describes his new workplace as a boring corporate laundromat. "My boss is a dick," Jesse complains, adding that the owner is "a super dick" whom everyone fears. When the group leader refers to Jesse's situation as "Kafkaesque", Jesse, not really understanding what the word means, agrees with him.
Back at the hospital, a doctor tests for feeling in Hank's legs, noting that nerve function appears to be returning. However, the doctor informs Skyler and Marie that the odds are against Hank making a full recovery. Another hospital staffer refers to insurance delays and alludes to policy limitations, but advises Marie not to go out of plan or she could land up bankrupt. Upon being told that insurance covered physical therapy would be medically justifiable but not optimal, Marie decides that she will arrange Hank's care herself.
Saul explains money laundering to a skeptical Jesse.
Saul and Jesse visit a nail spa that, Saul proposes, would be an ideal front for a money laundering scheme. Jesse, unimpressed with Saul's plan and already reluctant to pay taxes, ends the conversation after Saul declines to extend him Walt's 5% fee structure.
Walt and Gus discuss business in the chicken farm office.
Meanwhile, Walt visits the chicken farm to meet with Gus, wanting to discuss "issues that could cause a misunderstanding between us." Walt speculates that he was the Cousins' primary target, and that Gus steered them to Hank in order to protect him, and that he did so to put heat on the cartel, affect their supply, and could corner the entire Southwest meth market. Walt says that he owes Gus his life and respects his strategy. He leaves with a $15 million-a-year open-end deal and Gus's guarantee of the White family remains safe. On the ride home, feeling empowered and reckless, Walt floors his gas pedal and nearly drive his Aztek into an oncoming semi truck.
At another group meeting, Jesse recounts being inspired by Mr. Pike, high school woodworking teacher. At first, Jesse slacked off on in Mr. Pike's class, but when chastised with not being able to do any better, he eventually painstakingly created an intricate box. When asked what he did with it, Jesse says he gave it to his mother. When the group leader suggests "it's never too late", and that Jesse should take art classes, Jesse admits that he didn't really give the box to his mother, but traded it for an ounce of weed.
Skyler and Marie discuss Hank's medical bills at the White residence when Ted makes a surprise visit. When the conversation is taken outside, Ted asks why Skyler is being secretive, under the impression that she has divorced Walt. Skyler chides Ted for putting her on the spot. Ted departs, telling her to take as much time as she needs.
Jesse, Badger, and Skinny Pete at the diner.
Jesse visits a deli with Badger and Skinny Pete, reminiscing about being able to cook "anytime, anywhere" when in the RV and not having people boss him around. "What's the point of being an outlaw when you got responsibilities?" he complains. Jesse proposes they sling, hinting that he has found a new market to tap. Back at the lab, he underreports a batch's weight when it's a couple of pounds over.
Badger and Skinny Pete follow Jesse's new business plan by accompanying him to his next group support meeting. There, they make a point of mentioning the blue meth that's "back in town", enticing the other recovering addicts in the group. 
Skyler offers financial help to Marie and Hank as a stunned Walt listens in.
Meanwhile, at the hospital, Marie threatens to take Hank's story to the press if he doesn't receive top-grade therapy. Ignoring Walt's hesitance, Skyler offers to pay Hank's medical bills. Explaining how she came upon a large amount of money, Skyler spins a tale about Walt attempting to provide for his family by developing a card counting system and winning big in illegal blackjack games. Marie is astonished by the supposed admission. Walt plays along, impressed by Skyler's ability to lie. When he asks how Skyler came up with the story, she replies that she "learned from the best". Skyler also voices her suspicion that Hank was shot because of Walt. She walks out, once again leaving Walt crestfallen.
Over disjointed, extreme closeups of a common housefly, Skyler softly sings a lullaby to Holly.
Walt lies awake at two in the morning in his condo, staring up at his smoke detector's flashing indicator light. Later, after he and Jesse scrub the equipment in the superlab, Walt pores over calculations and notes that the meth yields are consistently short. Jesse suggests spillage, evaporation and condensation might account for the discrepancy. Walt rejects these hypotheses, but admits that "the vestiges" left from their cooking process could possibly account for a portion of the missing meth.
After Jesse leaves for the day, Walt becomes distracted by a fly that is loose in the lab. His efforts become increasingly desperate as he chases it all over the room. Walt ends up breaking an overhead lamp with his shoe, which gets lodged in the ceiling. Balancing dangerously on the outer rail of the lab's catwalk, Walt attempts to dislodge his shoe. When Walt tries to swat at the fly with a broom, he falls from the catwalk onto the concrete floor. As Walt attempts to recover, the fly lands right on one of the lenses of Walt's eyeglasses.
Jesse arrives at the industrial laundry the next morning to find Walt's Aztek still parked outside. Before exiting his own car, Jesse looks at his ashtray and notices lipstick on an old cigarette butt left by Jane Margolis months before. He places it back, not willing to or able to throw it out.
Jesse has to force his way into the superlab; Walt has dramatically increased the air pressure to address what he calls a "contamination". Jesse initially assumes that Walt is talking about a dangerous disease, and is nonplussed when Walt tells him the contaminate is a fly. Jesse works furtively to keep their current batch of meth, halfway through the cooking process, on track. Walt orders Jesse to wait until the fly is caught, and smacks him with the swatter when Jesse continues anyway. After a scuffle, the fly lands on Walt's head. Jesse, relishing the opportunity to get back at Walt, swats hard. Reeling, Walt crawls on the floor looking for the fly's corpse, but finds only a stray raisin. Jesse convinces Walt that they should step outside and get some air. However, after Jesse passes through the doorway, Walt snatches his keys and locks himself in the lab. Jesse counters by shutting off the lab's main circuit breaker and asking the laundry workers for an axe.
Later on, the power is restored. Jesse shows Walt the assortment of pest control supplies he has purchased. Walt deems the nontoxic glue strips acceptable. Walt and Jesse hang them throughout the lab. Jesse prepares coffee and slips some sleeping pills into Walt's cup, in an effort to force him to get some much-needed sleep. Jesse tells Walt the story of an opossum that took up residence beneath his aunt Ginny's house, he continues, but even after it had been removed she insisted it was still there. Ginny would tap on the floor with an umbrella yelling at the opossum to keep it down. Ginny had given the opossum a name, "Scrabbles".
Walt tells Jesse that he's lived too long, struggling through his own guilt and anger, expressing frustration that he cannot make Skyler comprehend his motivation for cooking. Walt ruminates further on when the perfect moment occurred, and reveals he stopped at a bar, where he met Jane's father, Donald Margolis. Walt, becoming groggy, says that earlier the same evening he had been watching TV. On the baby monitor he could hear Skyler singing Holly a lullaby.
The fly begins buzzing again. Jesse wheels over two steel carts, precariously stacks a ladder atop them and starts climbing. Half-asleep, Walt clutches the ladder while Jesse swats. Descending the ladder, Jesse spots the fly and swats. The fly falls to the floor dead. Walt, asleep, misses Jesse's victory.
Later, outside the industrial laundry as Walt's about to drive off, he warns Jesse that if he's skimming meth and Gus finds out, he won't be able to protect him. Jesse denies having taken any. Back at his condo, Walt wakes to the sound of buzzing. Staring up at the smoke detector, he watches a fly land on the blinking light.
In a flashback, Jesse and Jane visit the Georgia O'Keeffe museum in Santa Fe and observe her painting, "My Last Door." Unimpressed, Jesse argues that O'Keeffe painted the same door repeatedly attempting to achieve perfection, and doesn't understand why she'd bother. To Jane, the repetition was about making a good feeling last. Her point made, Jane extinguishes her cigarette, marked with an impression of her pink lipstick, in the ashtray.
At the hospital, Hank, suspended in an electromechanical patient lifter, works with a physical therapist. Taking even one step proves too painful, and he angrily cuts the session short. Outside of the therapy room, Marie gives Skyler the first medical bill, asking if she's indeed sure about covering the payment.
In the superlab, Walt takes over the weighing of a meth batch, to which Jesse acts offended. Walt silences Jesse, making a slight motion with his finger, implying that, again, the lab might be monitored.
At Jesse's support group, a reluctant newcomer named Andrea Cantillo begins attending. Badger and Skinny Pete admit to Jesse that they can't bring themselves to sell to recovering addicts. To show them how easily addicts can be tempted, Jesse strikes up a conversation with Andrea, who had mentioned before in the session that she didn't want to be there.
Over dinner, Junior announces that he'll soon be qualified to drive without supervision, and suggests that his parents think about what car to buy for him. Later, Walt hands Skyler a check for Hank's medical bill from his "guy." Skyler, insisting that the origin of the money must be "unimpeachable", is not convinced that Walt's "guy" is competent and insists on meeting him. Walt takes Skyler to meet Saul at his office the next day. Saul's suggestive quips don't impress Skyler, nor does his proposal to launder Walt's money through a laser tag business. Saul, in turn, is annoyed by Skyler questioning his ideas.
Jesse makes out with Andrea at her house. He initially tries to push blue meth onto Andrea, but the arrival of her five-year-old son, Brock, and her grandmother interrupts the pitch. Andrea describes Jesse as being "like a sponsor" to her disbelieving grandmother.
Driving back from Saul's office with Walt, Skyler criticizes Saul's lack of caution. Despite the clownish behavior, Walt assures her, Saul knows what he's doing and that his involvement in producing meth is "ongoing." Skyler stops at the car wash where Walt used to work, suggesting that they use that business to launder their money. "It's a story people will believe, not laser tag," she says. "This is what we buy."
Outside the support group meeting, Jesse asks Skinny Pete and Badger why they're still attending if they won't sell to addicts; it turns out they are actually advancing in the recovery program. Disgruntled, Jesse leaves with Andrea. At a taco restaurant, Jesse entertains Brock with magic tricks. While chatting, Jesse learns that Andrea has a younger brother, Tomás. "We don't talk about him," she says.
Sitting in Saul's Cadillac outside the car wash, Walt explains the logic of purchasing this business instead of the laser tag. Walt contends that any story can work as long as it's sold with conviction and one has a trusted accomplice who will look the other way.
Meanwhile, after a night of sex, Andrea asks Jesse for some blue meth. Jesse, having changed his mind about pushing it on her, chides Andrea for using meth when she had a child to take care of. Andrea takes offense, insisting that she is not a bad mother and upset that a drug dealer would judge her on how she lives her life. The two discuss her struggle to spare Brock the same fate as Tomás, who became fell in with a gang and, at age ten, killed a rival dealer as part of an initiation rite. Realizing that Andrea's story closely matches the circumstances of Combo's murder, Jesse grimly quizzes her about the details.
At the hospital, Marie excitedly tells Hank that he will soon be released, and physical therapy equipment and a hospital bed have already been installed at their home. Outraged, Hank tells her to remove the equipment, insisting that he won't leave the hospital until he is finally able to walk.
That night, at the White residence, Skyler proposes that she perform as Walt's illicit partner at the car wash. When Walt objects to her involvement, Skyler tells him that she is deeply involved in his criminal activities already and that reveals that she did not sign the divorce papers. Walt is aghast as she further points out that married people cannot be compelled to testify against their spouses.
Gus surprises Walt with an invitation to his home for dinner. There, Gus hands Walt a large knife to chop some garlic for the Chilean dish he's cooking. Walt, uneasy about what Gus is up to, complies. Over dinner, Gus offers to help Walt avoid mistakes that he himself made starting out. He mentions that people know how to be poor, but need to learn how to be rich. His first piece of advice is: "Never make the same mistake twice."
The next day, Jesse drives to the corner where Combo was shot, where he spots Tomás circling about on his bike and asks to buy meth. Moments later, Jesse hands money to the rival dealers who directed the murder, after which Tomás then slips the meth to Jesse and tells him to bounce. The meth is blue, suggesting that these dealers work for Gus. Angered, Jesse leaves.


The episode opens to a musical montage sequence of Wendy turning tricks outside "The Crystal Palace". Her finances replenished, she exchanges cash and burgers for blue meth with the rival dealers. Jesse, sitting nearby in his car, watches the deal go down.
Walter sits in his car's passenger seat while Junior practices for his upcoming driving test. When the two arrive home, Skyler privately presses Walt about their car wash scheme. Walt uses the opening with Skyler to negotiate four nights of family dinners a week, claiming that them buying a car wash would be more plausible if they seemed reconciled.
After work, Jesse takes Walt to a bar and shows him the blue meth he purchased from Tomás and the rival dealers responsible for Combo's murder. Jesse asks Walt for ricin, planning to have Wendy slip tainted burgers to the dealers when she next buys meth. Walt dismisses the plan, reasoning that he and Jesse lost a simple turf war, and that killing the dealers at this point won't achieve anything. Jesse says that he will kill them, with or without Walt's help.
At the hospital, Marie, Hank, are playing a card game when Marie baits Hank by mentioning that the doctors say he is well enough to be released. Hank, however, continues to insist that he will not leave the hospital until he can walk again.
Walt and Saul wait for Jesse to show at the law office. Desperate to find a way to stop Jesse, Walt suggests having him arrested somehow, reasoning that Jesse will have time to calm down if he's off the street. Meanwhile, at the Crystal Palace, Jesse tries to ease Wendy's qualms about the murder plot by appealing to her maternal instincts — she has a son named Patrick.
Mike surprises Walt with a visit to his home to tell him that neither he nor Saul will be pursuing any suggestion of getting Jesse arrested. Mike reveals that he also works for Gus, who would "take it as a problem" if Jesse landed in jail. He then tells Walt a story from his time as a police officer, when he confronted a chronic wife abuser. Mike intervened, and almost killed the wife-beater, but gave in when the abuser promised to change his ways. Shortly thereafter the man beat his wife to death. Mike's mistake was to take a half measure when he should have taken a full one. "No more half measures, Walter," he says referring to Jesse.
At the corner, Wendy sits in Jesse's car clutching a bag of poisoned burgers, but the dealers are not present. Mike and Victor take them by surprise and whisk Jesse away to Gus's chicken farm. There, he is brought before Walt and Gus, sitting side by side, as well as the rival dealers. Gus concedes that his employees "acted rashly" in murdering Combo, but that contends that he was selling on their territory.
When Jesse accuses Walt of ratting him out, Gus tells him that without Walt, "I would be dealing with this in a very different way." Gus orders Jesse to make peace with the dealers, but Jesse refuses on the grounds that they use kids in their business. Incensed by Jesse's insolence, but committed to finding a resolution, Gus tells the dealers, "No more children," and orders Jesse to shake their hands. On the drive away from the chicken farm, Walt tells Jesse that his actions affect other people and that compromise is sometimes necessary. Jesse, furious, doesn't respond to Walt.
At the hospital, Marie gives Hank a sponge bath and playfully bets him that she can physically arouse him with a handjob. Certain that nothing will happen, Hank agrees to return home if she succeeds. She does indeed succeed; the scene cuts to Marie smiling victoriously as she wheels an annoyed Hank out of the hospital.
That night, Jesse and Andrea are enjoying each other's company in bed when the phone rings. Andrea becomes hysterical as she is told bad news by her grandmother. The couple rush to a playground, where Tomás's dead, bullet-riddled body has been found.
The next day, Jesse is absent from the superlab, causing Walt to repeatedly dial his voicemail. That night, Walt sees a TV news report on Tomás's murder. Realizing what is about to happen, Walt abruptly leaves dinner with his family.
Meanwhile, Jesse is parked at the corner and snorts some meth to get his confidence up. Spotting the dealers' car, Jesse picks up his gun and steps out of his car. The dealers, also armed, notice Jesse approaching them and prepare for a confrontation. Just as they draw their guns, however, Walt suddenly plows into the dealers with his Aztek. One is killed instantly under the wheels; the other, badly injured, is shot in the head by Walt as he reaches for his gun. Walt looks up at the horrified Jesse and utters one word: "Run."
In a flashback to 1993, a realtor shows a younger Walt and Skyler (pregnant with Junior) the house where they will eventually live. Walt, currently working at the prestigious Sandia Laboratory, and envisioning a bright future with three children, worries they aren't setting their sights high enough with the house. However, Skyler argues that the house is the best they can get.
In the present, Walt sits in his car in the desert until an SUV arrives. Mike phones Walt and instructs him to walk toward the SUV. Meeting him halfway, Walt is frisked by Mike. Soon he is confronted by Gus, who demands to know why he put them all at risk for Jesse, a "worthless junkie". Walt explains that Jesse wanted revenge against Gus's dealers for killing Tomás, and perhaps thought Gus had given the order. Gus denies ordering the murder. Walt suggests that Gus has two options: kill Walt and spend months searching for Jesse, or overlook the incident and continue their partnership. Gus accedes, but insists on choosing Walt's new lab assistant.
When Walt reports to the superlab the next morning, he is surprised to see that the locks have been changed and that Gale has been reinstated as his assistant.
Four cartel hitmen go to a warehouse owned by Gus's chemical supplier, Duane Chow, and take him and his secretary hostage. Mike appears and effortlessly kills all four of the hitmen. He then shoots Chow through the hand and orders him to have his assistant drive him to the hospital—the wound is Chow's penalty for not informing Gus about the situation. At Gus's office, Mike and Gus examine the gunmen's passports and agree that the cartel is looking for weaknesses to exploit in Gus's operation.
In the superlab, Walt and Gale cook while Victor observes them from the catwalk. Alluding to previously upsetting Walt, Gale promises to follow his instructions exactly and to be the perfect lab assistant. Walt assures him that he's doing fine. Later, Gus surprises Gale at his apartment and tells him about Walt's diagnosis. He tells Gale that he plans on keeping Walt as long as he wants, but asks Gale to learn how to master Walt's cooking process in the event that he dies.
Mike heads to Saul's office in order to find Jesse's whereabouts. Saul initially invokes attorney-client privilege, but when Mike threatens him, Saul lets Mike sneak a peek at a notebook containing the name of a trailer park in Virginia. Later, Saul drives Walt to the laser tag business, knowingly being followed by Victor. Once inside, it is revealed that Jesse is hiding out in the laser tag. Saul warns both of his clients that Mike will soon realize the Virginia address is a decoy. Speaking privately with Jesse, Walt says that he is only safe until Gale feels confident enough to take over the lab. They decide that they have to kill Gale, and debate over who should do it. After Jesse states he doesn't want to be a murderer, Walt says that he will kill Gale instead.
That night, as Walt is leaving his house to go kill Gale, Victor pulls up and tells him to get in, claiming there is a chemical leak in the lab. At the industrial laundry, Walt sees Mike and knows he's about to be executed. Walt seemingly offers to give up Jesse. Mike demands to know Jesse's whereabouts, but Walt explains that since he moves around, Walt must call him to arrange a meeting. Back at the arcade, Jesse receives Walt's call and is instructed to kill Gale. Jesse cuts the call, grabs the gun, and runs off.
Mike and Victor draw guns on Walt, but Walt tells them to hold off, reciting Gale's address. The two recognize the address and what is about to happen; Victor immediately leaves to intercept Jesse while Mike phones Gale. However, music and a noisy teakettle prevent Gale from hearing his phone vibrate. As he pours himself a cup of tea, Gale hears a knock on his front door. He answers. It's Jesse.
"You don't have to do this," Gale pleads.
Jesse pulls out his gun and points it at Gale's head. Gale, at first thinking it's just a hold-up, offers he take whatever he wants, adding he has large amounts of cash; but it soon dawns on him that none of that will do, and that Jesse is there to kill him. Gale begs for his life. Jesse—his eyes tearing, and fighting back every impulse not to do this—reluctantly fires the gun.
In a flashback, Gale excitedly unpacks new lab equipment in the superlab, making notes in a notebook. Gus visits the lab to check on Gale's progress. Gale tells him that the sample of blue meth he has been given to analyze is beyond the chemical purity that he, or anyone else he knows of, can produce. Gus politely demurs, saying the chemist responsible wouldn't make a suitable partner. Gale disagrees, saying they "have their work cut out for them" if that is their competition. Gale's comments cause Gus to reconsider.
Gale's corpse
In the present, Jesse stands in Gale's doorway, having just shot him. In a state of shock, he does not rush from the scene. Later, Victor arrives at the apartment complex, pushes his way through a small group of onlookers gathering outside the open doorway, and sees Gale's body. Outside, he spots a shellshocked Jesse in his car. Victor jumps in and orders Jesse to drive at gunpoint.
Victor takes Jesse to the superlab, where Walt and Mike are staring each other down. Walt initially assumes that Jesse failed, but realizes from his dazed emotional condition that he did in fact kill Gale. Mike takes Victor aside and asks if he performed a sweep of Gale's apartment. He replies that he couldn't on account of the people already there. When Mike asks if he was seen, Victor dismissively admits he was.
Early the next morning, Marie appears at the White residence with a stack of unpaid medical bills. Seeing Walt's Aztek in the driveway, she assumes that he and Skyler have reunited. After she leaves, Skyler moves the Aztek to a nearby street so Walt Jr. won't ask questions when he wakes up.
Back at the lab, Walt explains the new reality to Mike and Victor: like it or not, he is the only one who can keep up with their production schedule. In response, Victor switches on the lab equipment, having become familiar with the cooking process by watching Walt and Gale. Now the two face a potential problem: whether Victor can manage a cook by himself.
Saul is frantically scouring every inch of his office for bugs when he receives a call from Skyler asking about Walt's whereabouts. Returning her call by payphone, he falsely assures her Walt is fine; then he tells his new bodyguard, Huell Babineaux, that they might need to leave town. Meanwhile, Skyler drives with Holly to Walt's apartment. When no one answers the door, she summons a locksmith, Adam, and pressures him to illegally let her inside by feigning a panic attack. Searching the apartment, she finds no clues to where her husband might be.
Meanwhile, at the Schrader residence, a frustrated Hank is being put through physical therapy with a trainer. Marie gushes about Hank's progress but Hank dismisses the compliment, commenting that he only covered sixteen feet in twenty minutes. Humiliated and defeated, he asks Marie to help him use his bedpan.
Gus slicing Victor's throat with a box cutter
In the superlab, Walt watches Victor's cooking process and is dismayed when he doesn't miss a step. Gus arrives, quietly glaring at him and Jesse. As he wordlessly changes into an orange clean-up suit, an increasingly anxious Walt defends his actions and insists he and Jesse are the only two meth cooks he can rely on. Gus picks up a box-cutter and walks menacingly toward Walt and Jesse. Instead of attacking them, however, he grabs Victor and slashes his carotid artery, causing blood to spray everywhere. Walt can hardly look at the scene, and even Mike briefly draws his gun in shock, but Jesse glares back at Gus. Gus silently changes back into his suit. Before he leaves the lab, he tells Walt and Jesse to "get back to work".
Walt and Jesse, with some assistance from Mike, squeeze Victor's body into a plastic drum and pour in hydrofluoric acid. Walt seals the drum, which is shipped off with a load of hazardous material. Later at a Denny's restaurant, a shaken Walt asks Jesse what their next move is going to be since, he believes, Gus will kill them at the first opportunity. Jesse says that Gus won't dispose of them, but thinks that his murder of Victor still sent a message: "If I can't kill you, you'll sure as shit wish you were dead."
Walt arrives at the White residence in a cab but can't find his Aztek. Skyler meets him in the driveway and tells him she moved it to avoid questions from Walt Jr. She doesn't ask where he's been; she simply directs him to his car and returns to the house. Walt smiles, optimistic that he's making some headway with Skyler. Meanwhile, at Gale's apartment, the Albuquerque Police processes the murder scene; Gale's notebook sits in plain sight on his coffee table.

In a motel room, Walt purchases a .38 snub-nosed revolver from Lawson, an illicit gun dealer procured by Saul. Watching him awkwardly draw the weapon, Lawson tells Walt that as long as the gun is for defense, there is little sense in him carrying an illegal firearm.
Mike has coffee in a bar and notices Victor's dried blood on his jacket sleeve; he wipes it off, unsettled. Meanwhile, Jesse has purchased a large sound system and shows it off to Badger and Skinny Pete. He then successfully tempts his friends, who are in recovery, to take some meth. As the three of them get high, Jesse decides to throw a party. His house quickly becomes a crowded with people. Elsewhere, at his condo, Walt practices drawing his revolver.
Marie Schrader wakes in the middle of the night to find Hank Schrader examining his minerals. When she mentions how late it is, he pointedly notes that the house has other bedrooms.
The next morning, Walt chastises Skyler White for discussing their intention to buy a car wash over the phone. They're not talking about purchasing a brothel, she counters, adding that if Walt isn't willing to pull the trigger on the deal then she'll contact Saul Goodman directly.
Jesse, meanwhile, tiptoes through the passed-out partygoers. Peeling off some large bills, Jesse instructs Badger to buy everyone breakfast and keep the party going until he returns. At the lab, Walt tucks his gun in his belt, waiting for Gustavo Fring to arrive. When someone enters the laboratory and appears at the top of the stairs, Walt prepares to draw. Only instead of Gus, who arrives is actually Victor's replacement, Tyrus Kitt, there to pick up the latest batch. When Mike demands a second weighing ("new policy") Walt asks to see Gus to "clear the air." Mike simply responds that Walt will never see Gus again. Mike leaves, as Tyrus and Jesse weigh the batch. Walt looks unsettled, his plan to deal with Gus will be harder than he thought.
Surveilling the car wash from across the street, Skyler tallies the cars and services each customer receives, making a detailed accounting of the business. At the Schrader house, Hank pushes himself to "soldier up" through a tough physical therapy session. Marie is elated by Hank's progress, but after the therapist departs, Hank coldly orders her out of the room.
The party is in full swing at Jesse's house when he returns from the lab. Andrea rings the doorbell, but waits outside to speak with him. She asks Jesse if he sent her an envelope of cash the night her brother's killers were murdered. Jesse acknowledges he did, then urges her to use the money to move her son Brock to a better neighborhood.
Late that night, Walt approaches Gus's house, gun in hand, but loses his nerve when Tyrus calls, telling him, "Go home, Walter." Surprised, he looks all around but sees nothing. But, it seems his every move is being watched.
The next day, a deliveryman arrives at the Schrader home with box upon box of minerals. Hank instructs Marie to check each box for damage. "They're rocks," she replies, bristling. He corrects her, "they're minerals," and that some of them are very delicate. Once again, Hank treats her unkindly and Marie feels it acutely. At the car wash, Skyler approaches Bogdan Wolynetz with a proposal to buy his business. Knowing that Walter is behind the offer, he derisively asks for $10 million; Skyler counters with $879,000 then shows him detailed research of his expenses and revenues. Bogdan counteroffers with $20 million and asks Skyler to leave because he believes Walter is using her to buy the car wash.
Walt approaches Mike at a bar and tells him that his recent actions were motivated by loyalty to Jesse and self-defense. Walt says that he believes that Mike was just following orders when he tried to kill him. Walt insists that he and Mike are in "the same boat," and that Gus could easily kill either of them. Mike seems to consider the suggestion for a moment, then knocks Walt to the floor with a savage punch, and kicks him twice in the gut when he's down.
As Jesse's party finally breaks up, he asks Badger and Skinny Pete to stick around. Badger and Skinny Pete apologetically decline, disappointing a depressed Jesse who's desperate for the distraction. Alone in his house for the first time in days, Jesse cranks up the music to earsplitting levels, and sits against the shaking speaker, shaking. With fingers digging into his temples, Jesse starts to panic at being left with only the mess, the music, and his thoughts for company.
While preparing for another cook in the superlab, Walt hears a whirring sound. He looks up to see that a surveillance camera has been installed above the lab, allowing Gus to track his every move. Furious, Walt walks up to the camera and gives it the middle finger.
Frustrated that Walt won't return her calls, Skyler visits his apartment and demands that they discuss buying the car wash; Walt replies that he's facing far more pressing matters. Noticing the bruise on Walt's face from Mike's beating, she tells him to go to the police. When she presses for details, Walt admits he got into a minor disagreement with a colleague over a "business strategy", and refuses to turn to the authorities. Skyler makes Walt promise she'll be informed if he's ever in danger.
Marie attends a residential open house, apparently up to something. After she arrives home, Marie unpacks her shopping, along with a figurine she stole from the open house; her kleptomania is resurfacing.
In the superlab, Walt complains about the surveillance camera to Jesse, who just shrugs it off. He asks if Walt would like to race go-karts with him after work. Walt, confused and disinterested, says he has other plans. He then asks Jesse how he's doing and if there's anything he should know; Jesse points to Walt's bruised eye and asks Walt the same.
Meeting with the Whites at Walt's apartment, Saul pitches the prospect of using the Zen Nail Spa as their front for laundering Walt's money. Walt thinks that the nail spa is the safer option, believing that the car wash is a bad idea. However, Skyler mentions her previous visit to the car wash, during which how Bodgan questioned Walt's manhood. Offended, Walt changes his mind and insists to Saul that they buy the car wash.
Marie visits another open house and admires the owner's collection of spoons. The agent, Stephanie, notices that one of the spoons, which Marie specifically admired, is missing. That evening, Jesse races go-karts alone, shouting at the top of his lungs as he takes a curve. He arrives home to a meth party that's spiraling out of control, with people fighting, having sex and vandalizing the house. Jesse sits down, lights a cigarette, and impassively watches the chaos.
Marie attends another open house, but exits swiftly when Stephanie recognizes her. Stephanie confronts Marie outside and they tussle over Marie's purse. It falls to the ground, revealing a framed picture frame Marie lifted from the house. Marie is arrested, and calls Hank from the police station. There, she is told by Sgt. Tim Roberts that the homeowners are not pressing charges. When he asks if she wants to go home, Marie starts to sob.
While giving Holly a bubble bath, Skyler is struck by an idea and calls Saul. The two arrange for an associate of Saul's named Patrick Kuby to visit the car wash posing as a government environmental inspector. With Skyler coaching him through a Bluetooth earpiece, Kuby presents Bogdan with water samples that he claims are full of contaminants. Bogdan is told that he must cease operations until he replaces his entire wastewater treatment system. Bogdan is left frustrated.
Hank is visited by Tim, who solicits his help in the Gale Boetticher case. Showing Hank a copy of Gale's notebook, Tim speculates that it pertains to a methamphetamine superlab. Hank dismisses Tim's overture but halfheartedly agrees to review the notebook. Meanwhile, at the White residence, Walt and Skyler wait on word from Bogdan. The phone finally rings — Bogdan is calling with an offer to sell the car wash for $879,000. Skyler reduces her offer to $800,000, hanging up when Bogdan balks. A few moments later Bogdan calls back and accepts the counteroffer, much to Skyler's satisfaction.
Meanwhile, trying to breathe some life into the very unsavory and lethargic crowd in his living room, Jesse tosses his drug money into the air and watches his guests scramble after it. In a nearby car, Tyrus Kitt, a henchman of Gus, watches Jesse's house. Back at the White residence, Walt toasts the success of Skyler's scheme with a $320 bottle of champagne. This bothers Skyler, as it would raise questions about how an unemployed teacher could make such a purchase and undermine their story. Walt insists that she's being paranoid. Late that night, a bored and sleepless Hank reaches for Gale's notebook and begins reading.
On a rural highway, Mike is huddled inside a Los Pollos Hermanos truck which is soon forced off the road by two Cartel gunmen. Mike pulls out his pistol and cautiously listens as the gunmen confront and execute the driver. He hunkers down as the gunmen open fire on the truck, riddling it with bullets. Thinking that they've killed anyone inside, they break open the back doors. Mike pops up from behind some boxes and kills both of them. Upon climbing out of the truck, Mike realizes that a bullet has grazed his right ear.
After attending a Gamblers Anonymous meeting, Walt and Skyler study card-counting techniques to reinforce their cover story that Walt purchased the car wash using gambling winnings. She hands him a detailed script for their scheduled dinner with Hank, Marie, and Walt Jr. Walt is frustrated that Skyler is portraying him in a bad light even though he has been providing for the family. He reassesses his attitude and apologizes to Skyler for getting her involved in this whole situation.
The Whites visit the Schrader residence and are greeted by Marie and a wheelchair-bound Hank. Hank shows Walt and Walt Jr. a DVD of Gale Boetticher singing karaoke, which is a piece of evidence from a case that Hank has been asked to look at. Although Hank revels in mocking Gale's performance, Walt becomes increasingly uneasy watching the video, being reminded of Gale's murder.
At dinner, Skyler and Walt convince the rest of the family about Walt's purported gambling problem. Walt is silently amazed at Skyler's tears-on-cue performance. Under the guise of using the bathroom, Walt enters Hank's bedroom and finds his case file on the Gale Boetticher investigation. Inside, he is finds photos of Gale's body as well as Gale's notebook. Hearing noise, Walt quickly puts the file away.
Outside the bedroom, Walt runs into Hank. When Hank offers him a listening ear over his gambling issues, Walt seizes the opportunity and offers his own help in the Gale Boetticher case. The two return to Hank's bedroom and look over the files together. Walt browses the notebook looking for any evidence that can be traced back to himself or Jesse. Hank believes that Gale was "Heisenberg", lamenting that he should have been the one to catch him. He brings Walt's attention to a dedication Gale wrote in the front of the notebook "to W.W.", jokingly suggesting that it is addressed to Walt. Walt holds up his hands and says, "You got me."
Walt rushes to Jesse's house and asks him if he could have left behind any evidence at Gale's apartment following the murder. Jesse is unwilling to relive the experience, but Walt insists that Jesse try to remember the event step by step. Eventually, Jesse becomes fed up with Walt's questioning and pays two partygoers to throw him out of the house.
The next day, Walt tells Saul he fears that Hank will connect Gale's murder to Jesse, who in turn will be seen as a risk by Gus. Saul mentions that Walt can pay to have a “disappearer” remove his family from Albuquerque and set them up with new identities, but stresses that this is an option of last resort. Walt contemplates but rejects the idea, and they're stuck at an impasse.
The next morning, before leaving for work, Jesse heads to his bedroom and comes back with a wad of cash to keep the party going. A tweaker sees this and connects the dots: Jesse has stashed money upstairs. In the superlab, Walt watches as Gus' surveillance camera follows Jesse's every move—his worry over his partner amps up. Jesse returns home, tosses his guests some meth, then takes a female partygoer to his bedroom. There, Jesse notices his money has been stolen but doesn't react—he begins playing a video game, without a care.
The next morning, Mike wakes Jesse and drags him downstairs, where Tyrus is holding the tweaker thief, beaten and blindfolded, along with Jesse's bag of cash. Jesse takes his money and treats Mike dismissively, prompting Mike to threaten him. Mike returns to Los Pollos Hermanos and meets with Gus, explaining that Jesse is becoming a liability who needs to be dealt with.
Later, Walt is forced to handle to cook alone in the superlab and is incensed when he can't reach Jesse by phone. Afterwards he goes to Jesse's house, finding his cell phone on the bedside table. Realizing that he has been taken somewhere, Walt returns to the superlab and growls at the surveillance camera. Elsewhere, Mike is driving on a remote highway with Jesse in his passenger seat. Mike asks Jesse if he wants to know where they're going, to which he indifferently says no. The two drive off into the desert.

Speeding through the streets of Albuquerque, Walt contacts Saul on his cell phone and instructs him to deliver all of his money to Skyler if he doesn't return within twenty-four hours. He then leaves a message on Skyler's voicemail, telling her he loves her: evidently, Walt is heading into some kind of showdown that he doesn't expect to survive. He places his revolver on the passenger seat of his Aztek.
An armed Walt storms into Los Pollos Hermanos and demands to speak with Gus. Having seen Gus' car parked outside, he doesn't believe the manager when she says that Gus isn't there. Walt tells her that he will wait in the restaurant until Gus is called out. He receives a call from Mike, who tells him that Jesse will be with him for the day; Jesse confirms that he is okay, but doesn't know where Mike is heading. Walt brushes past the manager and bursts into Gus' office, onto to find it empty.
In the desert, Mike drives up a long dirt road. After he exits his car, an on-edge Jesse positions his keys between his fingers to use as a probable weapon. He watches as Mike grabs a shovel from the trunk and starts digging. After a few moments, he pulls a bag of money out of the ground and tosses it in the trunk. Mike tells Jesse that they have six more collections to make today and that he wants to have it done before dark.
Sgt. Tim Roberts visits Hank's house to discuss the Gale Boetticher case. Hank identifies Jesse and Badger as the only people directly tied to the blue meth that he knows of. He admits to having "a history" with Jesse, but doubts that he murdered Gale.
Mike makes his next pickup at an abandoned warehouse and finds Jesse standing guard when he returns to the car. As the pickups continue, Jesse becomes increasingly bored and frustrated. Eventually he says to Mike that if he's riding shotgun as "the guy" on this assignment, then he should be told where they are going and why. Mike pulls the car over and angrily tells Jesse that he is not "the guy", commenting that, "I had a guy, but now I don't." Mike insists that he doesn't know why Gus included Jesse in the errand.
In the superlab, Walt struggles to handle the prep work for the cook by himself. He returns home to sign papers finalizing the loan to buy the car wash. Skyler tells him that if their plan is to succeed, they have to be completely honest with each other. Skyler then plays her voicemail and hears Walt's message from earlier saying that he loves her. The two stare at each other meaningfully for a moment, then rush into the bedroom to make love.
Walt Jr. arrives home and realizes that his parents are together in the bedroom. Skyler frets over her son's reaction and suggests that Walt move back home in order to reinforce their cover story. Later, back at the superlab, Walt drops a barrel of methylamine while struggling with the forklift. Fed up, he screams at the surveillance camera that the cook is a two-man job, refusing to continue working until Jesse returns. Tyrus soon enters the lab and operates the forklift for Walt.
Mike makes the final pickup of the evening at another abandoned warehouse. While he's inside, a second vehicle arrives, and Jesse notices one of its occupants approaching Mike's car with a shotgun. Jesse, convinced they are about to be attacked, shifts the car into reverse, knocks the gunman to the ground, and slams into the other vehicle. He then speeds away in an attempt to lose the assailants. Jesse catches up with Mike elsewhere walking in town, picks him up, and explains what went down outside the warehouse.
The following day, Jesse returns to the superlab. He tells Walt that he had spent the day guarding Mike, bristling when Walt makes light of the notion. Meanwhile, Mike and Gus rendezvous outside Los Pollos Hermanos. It is revealed that the attack at the warehouse was staged by Gus himself as a means of testing Jesse, who reacted exactly as Gus planned.
That night, Walt, Skyler, and Walt Jr. visit the Schraders for dinner. Discussion soon turns to the Gale Boetticher case; assuming that he was "Heisenberg", Hank states that Gale was a genius. A tipsy Walt, his pride challenged at the idea of someone else taking credit for his work; to Skyler's disbelief, he dismisses Gale's notebook as "simple rote copying... of someone else's work" and muses that Heisenberg may still be at large. The following morning, Hank warmly greets Marie and tells her that he's resumed looking into the Boetticher case. Looking through crime scene photos from Gale's apartment, he notices a napkin from Los Pollos Hermanos with some letters and numbers inked at the bottom.
When Walter White walks into Los Pollos Hermanos to see Gustavo Fring about the location of Jesse Pinkman, there is a poster that can be seen on the wall near the door showing an award the restaurant received for “ABQ Votes! - Best Burrito 2010 - Thank You!” at minute: 2:25. However, in the lore of Breaking Bad, this episode is estimated to have taken place in 2009 (June 18–20, 2009).
When Mike Ehrmantraut is driving Jesse Pinkman in a car through the desert at the beginning of the episode, you can see a camera and a guy behind it shooting the scene at the bottom right hand corner of the screen (undearneath the wind turbine). This can be seen at minute: 8:57 and indicates that the final result of this scene was meant to be more "zoomed in" during the editing process in order to cut out the cameraman, but this was never corrected before the episode aired.
On a remote highway, Cartel gunmen ambush a Los Pollos Hermanos truck, similar to their previous assault. However, instead of shooting up the truck like before, they lock the guards in by barring the rear doors, use a hose to redirect the exhaust into the truck's ventilation system, then floor on the gas pedal. The gunmen eat the dead driver's lunch as the guards suffocate from carbon monoxide fumes. Afterwards, the gunmen enter the truck and take a single marked bucket of fry batter.
"I am not in danger, Skyler. I am the danger."
At the White residence, Skyler reads up on the Gale Boetticher case and repeatedly listens to Walt's voicemail message, finally realizing its meaning. When he awakens, she questions him about Gale's murder and the people he works for, interpreting his comments to Hank the previous night as a cry for help. Walt, annoyed, rejects Skyler's suggestion that he go to the police to obtain protection. When she asks him to "admit you're in danger", Walt turns on her and angrily states that he is an indispensable part of a lucrative drug business; stating that "I am the danger" and remarks that when someone gets shot opening their door, he is the one who knocks. Skyler is left stunned with the realization of who Walt is and what he's capable of. Walt later offers an apology, only to realize that Skyler has left the house with Holly.
Walt goes to the car wash alone to formally transfer ownership from Bogdan. Bogdan mockingly says that Walt is not ready to run the business and insultingly recommends that he should fetch his wife to do it instead. When Bogdan wants to retrieve the first dollar he ever made (hanging in a frame on the wall), Walt spitefully insists he leave it behind. Bogdan storms out of the car wash. Walt uses the dollar to buy a can of soda, relishing the moment.
As they sit in a diner, Mike notices that Jesse's hands are shaking and asks if he's okay. Jesse indirectly tells him he is in withdrawal, which causes Mike to offer his dinner to Jesse. Shortly after, Mike receives a phone call, leaves some money and leaves to attend to something. Jesse offers to go along but Mike leaves him behind.
Over breakfast the following morning, Walt Jr. assumes that his parents aren't talking because of Walt's "gambling addiction" and tries to excuse his actions as being equal to an illness; Walt pointedly counters that they are the result of his own choices. On the way to school, Walt decides to take a detour and buy a car for his son. Walt Jr. cheekily suggests that his father buy him a brand-new Dodge Challenger if he wants to "buy him off", drawing his attention to a nearby billboard.
Outside the laundry, Walt questions Jesse about his errands with Mike, insisting that they don't make any sense. Jesse, however, is gratified at being seen as useful by Gus' organization, telling Walt that maybe he's not "a loser" after all. Walt realizes that the robbery attempt on Mike was a setup, but Jesse assumes that Walt is trying to minimize his accomplishment. Walt comes to another realization: since he can't get rid of Walt without disrupting his operation, Gus is trying to drive a wedge between him and Jesse. Jesse doesn't want to hear it and heads into the superlab to begin cooking.
Halfway through cooking, Jesse receives a phone call and heads out on another errand with Mike, leaving Walt to clean up by himself. Walt defiantly goes upstairs and pays three Spanish-speaking women laundry workers to help clean the lab. Walt raises his coffee to Gus' surveillance camera with a smile while the women scrub the lab equipment.
Skyler drives to the Four Corners, a monument marking where the borders of New Mexico, Arizona, Utah, and Colorado intersect. At the point where the four states meet, she flips a coin; it lands in Colorado. She frowns, flips again, and again it lands in Colorado. Using her foot, Skyler drags the coin from Colorado to New Mexico. She looks at Holly, picks up the coin and gets back in her car.
Mike and Jesse waiting outside a junkie's house
Back in Albuquerque, Jesse and Mike drive up to a house in which the occupants, all meth addicts, are selling three pounds of blue meth that they didn't get from Gus. Mike wants to stake out the place until someone leaves, but Jesse decides to infiltrate the house. After getting the door slammed in his face, he takes a shovel from the trunk and begins digging in the house's front yard. Soon one junkie approaches him and asks why he is digging; Jesse hands over the shovel and asks him to take over. With the first junkie preoccupied, Jesse enters the house and is confronted by a second junkie armed with a shotgun. When the junkie is distracted, Jesse knocks him out with a nearby bong. Mike retrieves the stolen Pollos fry batter bucket; words in Spanish are written on the lid.
As Walt walks out of the superlab with the three laundry workers, Tyrus approaches them and takes the women away. Tyrus claims he is putting them on a bus back to Honduras. Feeling guilty, Walt tells him to have Gus blame him instead of the women; Tyrus assures him that he does.
That night, Mike and Jesse are again eating at the diner when Gus enters; he sits at the booth while Jesse waits outside. Mike informs Gus that the intent of the truck robbery was to send a message, recommending that he get ten or fifteen men and retaliate immediately. Instead, Gus wants to set up a meeting between himself and the Cartel. Before leaving, he asks how Jesse did that day. Outside, he tells Jesse that he heard that he could handle himself.
Skyler returns home to see that Walt went through with buying a Dodge Challenger for Walt Jr. She is displeased with the reckless purchase, telling Walt that the car directly contradicts the story they're supposed to be following and demanding that it be sent back the next day. Walt says he only wished to do something nice for his son, insisting that he's only protecting the family, to which Skyler replies: "Someone has to protect this family from the man that protects this family." She takes Holly to her room, leaving Walt sullen and speechless.
In the very beginning of this episode, there is a production error. When The Cartel thugs are opening the back of the Los Pollos Hermanos truck to retrieve the containers, the angle at which the truck is parked changes between shots. When the camera is shot from inside of the truck, the truck is parked at a 45 degree angle to the road. But in outside shots for the same scene, the truck is parked parallel to the road. This could imply that both sequences (inside and outside) where captured at a different time during production.

In his living room, Jesse plays a first-person-shooter video game in which he fires a gun at charging mutants, seeing flashes of Gale's murder. Distracted and disturbed, Jesse dies in the game. He catches his breath. The memory fades, and he restarts.
Walt looks at the explosion of the Challenger
At the car wash, Walt complains about the restocking fee the dealership is charging to take back the Dodge Challenger. Skyler pleads with him to return the car without making a scene. Instead, he drives to an empty parking lot and speeds around recklessly, burning donuts into the asphalt until the car runs aground on a parking block. Walt gets out, sets the car on fire and casually calls for a taxi as he sits down to watch it burn.
Later, Walt slumps in a chair in Saul's office while Saul handles the fallout from the "joy ride." Walt admits that the pressure of dealing with Gus is getting to him, and asks whether Saul can put him in touch with hit men. Saul points out that any gun-for-hire would likely know Mike and have to outmaneuver him. Walt tells Saul that he tried to kill Gus himself but couldn't get near him.
As Jesse is repainting his graffitied/damaged walls, Walt visits his house and asks how close he has become to Gus. Jesse remarks, "He said he sees something in me." Walt reminds him that Gus tried to kill them both, killed Victor and lied about not targeting children the day Andrea's brother Tomás was shot — in other words, he is making a case for Jesse to take action. Annoyed with his pestering, Jesse tells Walt that he will kill Gus.
The next day, Marie visits the car wash and tells Skyler that Hank's therapy and spirits have improved. Walt sneaks $274,000 in drug money past them hidden in pallets of soda. After Marie leaves, Skyler and Walt regroup. Skyler is stunned to realize that Walt's yearly income is more than $7 million, telling him that it's too much to launder. Walt coldly reminds her that this is a problem she wanted to solve; Skyler reminds him she wanted none of their present situation. She isn't pleased, but packs Walt's cash into the safe and mulls things over.
In the superlab, out of the surveillance camera's view, Walt cooks a batch of ricin. He visits Jesse's house that night and hands him the ricin, instructing Jesse to slip it into Gus' food or drink. Jesse conceals the slim ricin vial inside a cigarette that he hides in his pack. The following day, Walt Jr. takes Skyler's car and drives Hank to Los Pollos Hermanos. There, Hank chats briefly with Gus, who recognizes him from his charity work with the DEA and replenishes Hank's soda free of charge. Hank slips the cup into an evidence bag and stashes it under his passenger seat.
Mike and Jesse at the factory farm
Mike and Jesse drive to the Pollos factory farm. Inside the office trailer, while Mike discusses security arrangements with Gus, an indecisive Jesse holds the pack containing the ricin cigarette. Mike startles Jesse by offering him a loaded gun. Three Cartel members arrive at the farm, with only one, Gaff, talking to Gus personally. Gus offers $50 million to the Cartel in return for ending their partnership. Gaff replies that Gus knows what the Cartel wants and bluntly tells him that this is not a negotiation. As the Cartel members leave, Jesse contemplates shooting Gus in the back with the gun Mike gave him, but ultimately decides against it. On the drive back to town, he asks Mike what Gus sees in him.
That evening, Jesse attends his Narcotics Anonymous support group meeting and indirectly bares his soul about killing Gale, telling a story about a fictitious "problem dog" he put down. Another addict criticizes Jesse for animal cruelty, but the group leader cautions the group not to judge. The dam finally breaking, Jesse asks why not, admitting that he's really at the meetings only to sell meth to the other members. The following day, in the superlab, Walt asks Jesse's progress of the assassination attempt. Jesse lies and says he hasn't seen Gus.
Gus Fring's fingerprints are found at Gale's apartment
Meeting at the DEA office with Gomez and ASAC George Merkert, Hank hypothesizes that Gale was Heisenberg's former cook. The numbers scribbled on the Los Pollos Hermanos napkin from Gale's apartment, he explains, were for an industrial air-filtration system that Gale took delivery on. By coincidence, its manufacturer is owned by a German conglomerate called Madrigal Electromotive, Pollos' parent company. Hank theorizes that a vegan like Gale wouldn't eat at a chicken restaurant, and further that he'd only go to Pollos for a meeting, perhaps with Gus. Hank also questions gaps in Gus' personal history. Pausing for effect, he reveals photos of a fingerprint on his soda cup and prints from Gale's apartment, both of which belong to Gus.
In a flashback to the period following Hank's shooting, Walt confronts Gus at the hospital while Mike slips away, unnoticed, after murdering Leonel Salamanca. Later, at the nursing home, a seething Hector is watching news coverage of the shooting when Gus pays a visit. Gus props himself on a chair opposite Hector and details the Cousins' deaths, as well as that of Juan Bolsa, with sadistic glee. Gus leaves a silently raging Hector behind with a patronizing pat on the knee.
In the present, Walt visits an oncology clinic and sits in a waiting room with another patient, who tries to commiserate with him. Walt dismisses the young man's suggestion that cancer has put the man's life on hold, insisting that he should live life on his own terms. Later, in the superlab, Gus watches Walt's every move through the security camera feed; despite his vehemence, Walt's not in charge of anything right now.
The DEA questions Gus
The Albuquerque Police and the DEA summon Gus to police headquarters, where he notices an identikit sketch of Victor on a bulletin board. Hank, Gomez, ASAC Merkert and Sgt. Tim Roberts of the APD present Gus with the fingerprint evidence putting him in Gale's apartment. Gus tells them that Gale was previously given a chemistry scholarship, and claims that Gale invited him to the apartment to propose a vague investment opportunity that Gus declined. Hank presses further, asking why no record of Gus exists in his purported home country of Chile. Gus is caught by surprise, but tells him that the Pincohet regime were terrible at recordkeeping; he assures Hank that he will locate the documentation.
After Gus departs, Hank's colleagues tell him that they feel inclined to believes Gus' story. Hank concedes that Gus put on a good performance, but wonders why a supposed law-enforcement booster didn't come forward sooner with information about a murder case he's been clearly aware of; he is clearly not satisfied.
Saul visits Andrea and delivers cash from Jesse. Afterward, in Saul's car, Jesse asks after her son, Brock. Saul encourages Jesse to check on them himself. Meanwhile, at the White residence, Skyler conceals cash in vacuum-sealed bags of clothes and hangs them in her closet. The weight of the bags quickly sags, then snaps, the support rod. Desperate for a solution, she stashes the bags in the house's crawl space. That night, over dinner with the Schraders, Walt informs his family that he is still in remission. Marie mentions that Hank met with top DEA people about something. Hank changes the subject and asks Walt to drive him to a mineral show the next day. Walt, piqued by Marie's disclosure, agrees.
Hank and Walter at Los Pollos Hermanos
The next day, Hank admits there's no mineral show and instead directs Walt to the Los Pollos Hermanos parking lot. He tells Walt that he suspects Gus is a major drug distributor, and to prove it, he wants Walt to plant a GPS tracker in the wheel-well of Gus' car. While Hank gives instructions to an apprehensive Walt, Mike pulls up beside Walt's Aztek and stares him down. After failing to dissuade Hank, Walt reluctantly exits his car. He approaches Gus' vehicle and drops to his knee, but doesn't plant the device. He then walks into Pollos, where Gus greets him at the counter. Walt clumsily informs Gus of what's happening and says he didn't plant the tracker, but Gus tersely tells Walt to do it. He returns to the parking lot, drink order in hand, and plants the tracker. Hank is puzzled by Walt's inept bungling.
Walt returns to the superlab and addresses Gus through the surveillance camera, insisting that Hank has no hard evidence and that no harm should come to him. Later, Walt visits Jesse's house and tells him that Gus must be killed this week, preferably tonight. Jesse tells him that no meetings with Gus have been scheduled. When he briefly steps away, Walt surreptitiously reads an incoming text message on Jesse's cell phone about a canceled meeting. When Jesse returns, Walt informs him he probably has a call; then waits to check whether Jesse will tell him the truth. When Jesse dismisses the call as nothing important, Walt is silently displeased with the deception.
The next day, Mike calls Gus and reports to him that neither the DEA or the APD consider him a suspect in Gale's murder; Hank is operating completely on his own. Mike also says that he can't find anything about Gus prior to 1989, which means that it is unlikely Hank can either. There is a danger, however, that Hank might be watching when the Cartel makes a move against Gus, which could result in a "perfect storm". Gus thanks him and says he will be in touch. Gus later removes the tracker from his car and puts it inside a newspaper dispenser near the restaurant. He then drives to the nursing home, where he informs Hector that he has defied the Cartel's ultimatum and that Hank is looking into his past.
Gus and Max in 1989
The narrative shifts to 1989. Gus and his partner, Max Arciniega, sit next to a pool at a lavish hacienda in Mexico. Hector walks out, urinates in the pool next to them, and otherwise disrespects Gus and Max in front of Bolsa. Don Eladio Vuente—the Cartel boss—strides out and compliments Gus and Max on their delicious chicken. His demeanor changes, however, when he confronts the men for apparently selling drugs in his territory. Speaking on Gus' behalf, Max tells them that Gus has used his knowledge of chemistry to make a much superior product to what Eladio is used to seeing, and offers him the opportunity to distribute their product. Despite seemingly liking the idea, Eladio is angered by Gus' perceived disrespect. As Max speaks in his defense, Hector suddenly shoots him through the head. Hector and Bolsa push Gus to the ground, forcing him to look into Max's dead eyes. Eladio tells Gus that he remains alive only because the Don knows who he really is.
Back in the present, Gus leans in close to Hector, who refuses to look at Gus. Gus leaves the nursing home as Hector silently fumes in his chair.

In a flash-forward, we hear heavy breathing and see a broken pair of eyeglasses on the floor. Blood drips onto the floor and on to a familiar pair of Wallabee shoes. A man's hand struggles to pick up the glasses. Upon retrieving them, he slowly stumbles away.
Hank and Walt view the GPS data
Walt drives Hank to Los Pollos Hermanos. Hank senses Walt's anxiety and attempts to lighten the mood. Walt retrieves the GPS tracker from Gus' car but refuses to enter the restaurant this time. Back at the Schrader residence, Hank curses when the tracker's data reveals that Gus only made trips between home and Los Pollos Hermanos. Leaving Hank's house, Walt spots Tyrus, who has been following them. He pulls up to Tyrus' car and calls 9-1-1 to report a suspicious man in the neighborhood, forcing Tyrus to leave.
Outside the laundry, Walt is mildly taken aback when Jesse says that he has already started the cook. Walt bums a cigarette and sees the ricin still in Jesse's pack. Jesse insists that he still intends to poison Gus, but Walt silently doubts his truthfulness. That evening, Skyler calls Walt from the car wash and reports that the "profits" are so good that Walt could begin preparing an exit strategy from his "second job". Walt, however, knows that there is no way out as long as Gus is alive.
The next morning, Hank calls Walt and proposes that they drive out to what he believes is Gus' meth distribution center. Knowing that Hank means the Los Pollos Hermanos factory farm, Walt feigns illness and convinces him to delay the trip; he then calls and warns Mike. At the factory farm, Mike directs Jesse and other operatives to hide all evidence of their distribution.
Meanwhile, at the car wash, Skyler makes false purchases between actual customers to help account for the extra money Walt is giving her. Ted shows up and informs Skyler that the IRS is auditing his business. As his company's bookkeeper of record, Skyler realizes that a criminal investigation would permit agents to monitor her mail and phone calls, and probably open the books at the car wash—a disaster across the board.
Gus standing before the Cartel's sniper
Back at the farm, Jesse muses to Mike about the potential fallout that offing Hank could give, given his connections to both Walt and the DEA. Outside, a sniper suddenly kills one of Gus' men in front of Jesse. Mike tackles Jesse to the ground and shoves him to cover behind a metal shack. Hearing the commotion, Gus walks outside and straight toward the gunfire as bullets pelt the ground around him. He defiantly raises his arms and stands in plain view. The sniper, Gaff, stops shooting and smirks.
That night, Gus receives a call in his office at Los Pollos Hermanos. Mike and Jesse arrive at the superlab to dispose of the shooting victim's body. Walt launches into a diatribe against Gus, whom he assumes ordered the man dead as either punishment or a message. Mike warns him against ever calling the police on one of his men again. Outside the laundry, Jesse asks why Gus did what he did at the farm. Mike explains that he knew the Cartel won't kill him because they need his distribution system. Jesse takes this to mean that he and the rest of Gus' operatives are open season. Mike suggests that he talk to Gus directly about any questions he has.
Skyler and Ted Beneke at the IRS building with Agent Picarus
The next day, Ted is being interviewed at the IRS building by an agent, James Picarus. Ted fumbles his way through his audit until Skyler unexpectedly appears. Dressed in a revealing outfit and obfuscating stupidity, she explains Ted's unreported income: she didn't record electronic payments because there wasn't a physical check. Picarus buys the act. Outside, Skyler tells Ted pay the back all the taxes and penalties.
That evening, Jesse visits Gus' house. While Gus is cooking, Jesse stands next to a pot of stew with the ricin cigarette in hand but can't bring himself to go through with it. Over dinner, Gus agrees to address Jesse's concerns, but only after he answers if he can cook Walt's formula. Jesse accuses Gus of befriending him under false pretenses so that Jesse can take over after Walt is killed; he says that if he kills Walt, he will have to kill him too. Gus calmly responds that is not what he meant, saying that he needs Jesse's help to prevent an all-out war with the Cartel.
Jesse asking for Walter's help
Unable to sleep, Skyler looks pensively at the bags of money under the house. The following day, Walt removes a GPS tracker that he has planted on Jesse's car. He examines the data at his apartment, learning about the trip to Gus' house. Meanwhile, Jesse leaves a message on Walt's voicemail that he has something important to tell him.
Walt drives to Jesse's house, where Jesse in a panic announces that Gus wants him to travel to Mexico and teach Walt's formula to Cartel chemists. Fearing that he'll fail and be killed, he begs Walt to coach him. Walt asks several times if Jesse has seen Gus, which he guiltily denies. Walt then grabs the cigarette pack out of Jesse's pocket and finds the ricin still there. Walt then produces the tracker and tells him he knows how long Jesse was at Gus's house. Jesse is furious that Walt was tracking, while Walt argues that Jesse has betrayed him. The confrontation escalates into a brutal physical fight. Jesse eventually gains the upper hand, pinning Walt to the floor and punching him in the face, breaking his glasses. When the fight ends, Jesse tells Walt to get out of his house and never come back.
Jesse, Mike, and Gus stand together out in the desert. After a long period of silence, the sound of a single-engine plane can be heard. It lands nearby and they board the plane. Jesse's anxiety is palpable as the plane takes off.
At the White residence, it's Walt Jr.'s sixteenth birthday. Unable to reach Walt, Skyler surprises Junior with Chrysler PT Cruiser parked in the driveway. Though underwhelmed, Junior politely thanks his mother, which quietly disappoints Skyler. Meanwhile, Ted visits Saul's office and is informed by Saul that his long-lost "Great-Aunt Birgit" from Luxembourg has left him $621,552.33—almost precisely the amount of his debt to the IRS. Ted insists he knows nothing about a great-aunt, but on hearing the amount of inheritance is all too happy to ignore the details and keep mum.
Gus, Mike, and Jesse are taken to the superlab
In Mexico, Jesse, Mike, and Gus sit blindfolded as they are driven to the Cartel's superlab. The lab's chief chemist, Benicio, takes an instant dislike to Jesse, and maligns him when it becomes apparent that he doesn't know how to synthesize phenylacetic acid, a basic ingredient. Jesse takes charge, telling Benicio that if he wants to make a superior product, he has to do it Jesse's way. He also criticizes the lab's dingy conditions and, channeling Walt, announces that no cooking will take place until all contaminants have been eliminated. As the lab's staff begin cleaning the place, Gus and Mike are quietly impressed with how Jesse is handling himself.
Walter Jr. meets with his dad
Junior drives to Walt's apartment and rings the doorbell. Walt initially doesn't respond until his son leaves a voicemail message threatening to call 9-1-1. His face still battered from his fight with Jesse, Walt opens the door in his underwear and lets Junior in. After lying to his son that his injuries were the result of a fight that came out of his "gambling addiction", Walt breaks down in tears. Junior comforts Walt and takes him to bed. As he drifts back to sleep, he mistakenly calls his son "Jesse."
At the Cartel superlab, workers observe and videotape Jesse as he begins the cook alone, lasting all night. The following morning, Benicio analyzes the finished product in the gas chromatograph. After a tense few moments, the batch tests 96.2 percent pure. Jesse is ecstatic with relief; while his product is not as pure as Walt's (99%), it is still superior to the Cartel's. To Jesse's alarm, however, he is told that he will now be effectively sold into servitude for the Cartel and abandoned in Mexico.
Saul visits the car wash and shows Skyler a credit report indicating that Ted leased a new Mercedes-Benz three hours after receiving Walt's money. He won't be able to pay the income tax bill in full—and clearly wasn't going to do so anyway.
Walt shares the story of his father
Meanwhile, Walt wakes up and sees that Junior spent the night on the sofa. Apologizing for his behavior, Walt details how he witnessed his own father wasting away from Huntington's disease; he states that he doesn't want his son to remember him in a similar manner. Junior disagrees, saying that that "bad way" to remember him would be "the way you've been this whole last year." Once Junior leaves, Tyrus, who was parked nearby, pulls into Walt's driveway and asks him if there's somewhere he should be.
Skyler goes to Beneke Fabricators and demands that Ted explain his lavish spending. Skyler argues that he should use the money given to him to pay his tax bill. When Ted stubbornly responds that his inheritance is his to spend as he pleases, Skyler blurts out that she was the one who gave him the money.
¡Salud!
Back in Mexico, Mike, Jesse and Gus visit Don Eladio's hacienda; Gus stands next to the pool where his partner Max was murdered years earlier. Gus opens a vial and swallows a pill, which seems to have no immediate effect. Jesse complains to about being left in Mexico, but Mike promises that either they are all going home or none of them are. After being introduced to Jesse, Eladio spots a gift box Gus brought along which contains a bottle of Zafiro Añejo tequila. He has a waiter pour shots for everyone except Mike, Gaff, and (after prompting from Gus) Jesse. Poised for a toast, Eladio warily waits for Gus to drink first; Gus does so as a show of good faith. Eladio and his capos follow suit.
The entire Cartel is poisoned
Some time later, Gus asks to use the bathroom. Once inside, Gus lays a towel in front of the toilet, kneels, and very calmly forces himself to vomit. Meanwhile, Eladio becomes physically unsteady while each of his capos begin to drop dead. Gaff moves to assist Eladio, but Mike slips in from behind and garrotes Gaff. Gus tidies up and leaves the bathroom, stepping out to confront Eladio next to the pool. Realizing that Gus has poisoned him, Eladio lunges at him but collapses into the pool, dead. Jesse pulls a gun from one of the deceased capos while Mike removes Eladio's necklace from his corpse.
Gus begins to falter, the antidote pill he took earlier not counteracting all of the poison. As Mike and Jesse draw their weapons, Gus musters the strength to shout that Eladio and his capos are all dead. Unsure that this will prevent a shootout, Mike and Jesse prop up Gus and proceed through the house as the staff flee with piles of cash in hand. In the driveway, Jesse finds a car with keys in it, and Mike eases Gus inside. Seconds later, Mike is shot in the stomach. Jesse wheels around and fires multiple rounds at the gunman, killing him. With Gus and an injured Mike in the car, Jesse jumps into the driver's seat and floors it out of the compound.
Other than Gaff, the 11 men standing directly behind Eladio cannot be identified through dialogue or the screenplay

At a makeshift hospital inside an abandoned warehouse in Mexico, doctors and nurses hastily prepare medical equipment until a phone call prompts them to wheel out a stretcher. A Cadillac sedan races toward them and screeches to a halt. The staff rush an unconscious Gus into the tent, leaving Jesse to tend to a severely injured Mike. In the tent, the staff focus on saving Gus from his self-induced poisoning. Jesse begs for them to help for Mike, but the lead doctor, Barry Goodman, replies that Gus "pays his salary".
Walt and Tyrus in the superlab
In the superlab, Walt cooks another batch of meth alone while being closely monitored by Tyrus, who refuses to answer his questions about Jesse and Hank. Later, Walt and Hank sit together in Walt's car, watching the Los Pollos Hermanos factory farm. Hank mentions a big Cartel-related incident in Mexico, which heightens Walt's concern for Jesse. Hank brings up Walt's face, which is still injured after his fight with Jesse, assuming that it is relating to his purported gambling.
Back in Mexico, Mike is asleep after receiving a blood transfusion. The whole scenario was planned out from the beginning, with the doctors methodically prepared with the medical history and correct blood types for Gus, Mike, and Jesse. Dr. Goodman says that Mike will need at least a week of rest before he can travel. Gus tells Jesse he'll send for Mike later, and they set off to leave without him. During the six-mile walk to the Texas border, Gus congratulates Jesse on how he handled the situation and says he has proved he can run the superlab on his own. Jesse insists that he won't cook if Walt is killed.
At the White residence, Skyler receives a voicemail from Ted, saying that he can't take her money. At his house, Ted gives Skyler a check for the full amount she gave him previously, but she insists that he pay the IRS instead. Skyler knows that a potential IRS audit threatens to unravel Walt's criminal activities and her role in them but is unable to tell Ted why he must comply. Ted says the amount she gave him isn't enough to save his life from ruin anyway, which Skyler interprets as a threat to extort her. Distressed after the meeting, Skyler calls Saul for help.
Gus and Jesse visit Hector at the nursing home. Gus gloats about murdering Don Eladio and the other capos in the Cartel, placing Eladio's necklace into Hector's pocket. He further points to Jesse as the man that shot his grandson, Joaquin, during their escape. As Hector's eyes fill with tears of rage and sadness, Gus reminds him that he is the only remaining Salamanca left. His revenge for the death of Max almost complete, he asks Hector once again if he'll look him in the eye. Hector steadfastly refuses but can't hide being visibly crushed. Gus walks out triumphant.
The collision between the vehicles
Walt sees Tyrus watching the Schrader residence as he picks up Hank. However, Hank unexpectedly asks Walt to go to the industrial laundry where the superlab is hidden; he has uncovered multiple connections between Gus, the laundry, Los Pollos Hermanos, Madrigal Electromotive and Gale Boetticher, realizing that the laundry is an ideal spot to hide a meth lab. In a total panic, Walt drives past the laundry's entrance and deliberately causes a collision by turning into oncoming traffic.
At the Schrader residence, Hank tells the family that he has ordered a new car with hand controls, which will allow him to drive unassisted. Walt is concerned at this new development. Skyler receives a call from Saul, who informs her that he will dispatch Huell and Kuby to deal with Ted. The two visit Ted at his home and coerce him into writing a check to the IRS for $617,226.31, telling him they will remain at his house for the entire weekend until the check clears. When Ted tries to flee, he trips over a rug and crashes headfirst into a kitchen island, breaking his neck. Huell and Kuby return to Saul and tell him that the check has been mailed and that Ted's accident was an "act of God" beyond their control.
Walt returns to work inside a cart full of dirty laundry. Although he took four days off due to the accident with Hank, he soon discovers that someone else was cooking in the lab during that time. That evening, Jesse is hanging out at his house with Andrea and Brock when Walt shows up. Walt implores an irate Jesse to not cook on his own, pointing out that he'll be killed if rendered unnecessary. Jesse angrily points out that the last time he came to Walt for help, he wished him dead. When Jesse goes back inside, Tyrus appears and uses a taser to subdue Walt.
The following day, a bound and hooded Walt is taken to meet with Gus in the desert. Gus tells Walt he is fired, forbidding him from coming near Jesse or the laundry again. Walt deduces that Jesse is preventing Gus from eliminating him, but Gus replies that he will come around. In the meantime, Gus now has no choice but to deal with Hank, warning Walt that he will kill his entire family if he interferes. Afterward, Walt frantically rushes to Saul's office and demands the phone number for the man who can make his family disappear. Saul tells him that he will need to pay extra due to being a high-risk client, paying upwards of $500,000. Walt asks Saul to give him a one-hour head start and warn the DEA that Hank's life is in danger.
Walt searches for the money
Walt rushes home and enters the crawl space to retrieve the money, only to discover that a large sum of the cash is missing. A frightened Skyler enters the meter room and peers down at Walt, who demands to know where the money went. She nervously admits that she gave the money to Ted. Walt lets out a violent scream and begins to cry, but his tears abruptly turn into maniacal laughter. Marie then calls, panicking after hearing from the DEA that Hank is being targeted. Skyler takes the call while Walt remains in the crawl space, staring aimlessly.

Walt and Skyler frantically pack their family's belongings. As DEA agents arrive to take them into protective custody at the Schrader residence, Walt tells Skyler that the hitman is after him and that his presence will only make the situation more dangerous. Skyler reluctantly leaves him behind as she takes Holly to her sister's.
Walt sits next to the pool, his revolver at his side, anticipating the worst. He mulls over his options, spinning the gun three times on its side as he does so. The first two times the barrel of the gun stops pointing at Walt, while the third points at a nearby potted plant. Walt continues his musings in sullen silence. Meanwhile, at the Schrader residence, Hank tells Gomez that his pursuit of Gus has resulted in the death threat. Gomez reluctantly agrees to investigate.
Jesse and Tyrus in the superlab during Gomez's investigation
Gomez arrives at the laundry and talks the foreman into letting him search the facility. When the foreman agrees, Gomez brings out a dog to sniff out the place, to no avail. Beneath the laundry, Jesse shuts off the lab equipment and waits silently with Tyrus. Gus calls Jesse and tells him that Walt is behind this development. Jesse sympathizes, but again refuses to cook if Walt is harmed. Gus answers that he will carry out an appropriate retaliation and hangs up.
After Gomez leaves, Jesse continues his cook. Afterward, a laundry truck drops him off near his car on a remote street. Jesse attempts to contact Walt without success, but finds several panicked voicemail messages from Saul. When he arrives at Saul's office, Huell, acting as Saul's bodyguard, pats him down for weapons. Saul gives Jesse the rest of his money that he had stored, and says that he is fleeing for his own safety after Gus threatened Walt's family. Elsewhere, Hank looks at Gomez' photos from the laundry, frustrated at the apparent dead end.
At home, Jesse receives a phone call from Andrea and rushes to the hospital, where Brock has been admitted to the emergency room. After he and Andrea visit him in the pediatric ICU, Jesse steps outside to smoke a cigarette. Upon noticing that his cigarette with ricin is missing, he desperately searches his cigarette pack, then runs inside to tell Andrea that Brock may have been poisoned. Andrea begs him to tell her what is going on, but he can only apologize and hurriedly runs off.
Jesse goes to the White residence and is let inside by Walt. After Walt lays his gun down, Jesse picks it up and points it at him. Walt tries to talk Jesse into lowering the gun, but Jesse is convinced that Walt has poisoned Brock and angrily demands that Walt admit why. Walt talks Jesse through the evidence, attempting to persuade him that he would have nothing to gain by killing the child. Suddenly Walt pauses, then falls into panicked laughter as he realizes that Gus has arranged this so that Jesse would kill Walt. Jesse finally lowers the gun and is convinced to help Walt kill Gus.
At the hospital, Jesse continually attempts to re-enter the ICU, but is stopped by the nurses when Andrea refuses to let him in. The next morning, Tyrus awakens Jesse and orders him to return to the superlab. When Tyrus attempts to strongarm him into moving, Jesse calls security on him. He then sends a text message to Walt, who is preparing a pipe bomb in his kitchen. Later, Tyrus approaches Jesse again and says that Gus is waiting to talk to him. Gus is at first insistent that Jesse follow the schedule but realizes that Jesse might suspect him of the poisoning and allows Jesse to wait in the hospital as Brock recovers. Jesse seemingly manages to lie to Gus that he doesn't know how Brock was poisoned.
Gus and his bodyguards walking to his car
Gus leaves the hospital and walks toward his car. From a nearby rooftop, Walt holds the detonator and watches with binoculars. As Gus nears his car in the parking garage, he suddenly pauses and looks out over the nearby skyline. He ultimately decides to walk away from the car rather than take the chance. Walt is left wondering how Gus could have possibly known about the bomb - he looks exhausted, panicked and helpless.
After Gus leaves the parking garage, Walt rushes to disarm the pipe bomb and remove it from Gus' car. He then enters the hospital and talks with Jesse, asking if he can think of any other place to catch Gus off guard. As they talk, two detectives, Kalanchoe and Munn, approach Jesse and take him in for questioning.
Jesse is questioned
At the police station, the detectives question Jesse about his hint that Brock had been poisoned with ricin; Jesse tells them he wants to call Saul. Meanwhile, Walt breaks into Saul's office as part of his own effort to contact the lawyer. Saul's secretary, Francesca, extorts him in exchange for the information.
Walt returns to home to retrieve the money but, realizing that Gus may have staked the place out, parks down the street and sends his unwitting neighbor, Rebecca, to check the house for him. His suspicions are right; shortly after she enters the house, two gunmen sneak out through the back gate. After the neighbor leaves, Walt sneaks in the rear patio door and reaches the crawl space. Getting the money, he narrowly avoids the hitmen as he exits the house.
Back at the police station, Saul enters the interrogation room and confers with Jesse. Jesse tells him to pass on the only information he thinks can help Walt — that Gus regularly visits the nursing home to torment Hector. After Saul relays this information, Walt decides to use Hector's antipathy with Gus to his advantage. He discreetly enters the nursing home to meet with Hector.
After Walt has left, Hector calls a nurse and spells out a message: "Need DEA". Later, Gomez visits Hank, who tells him that Hector will speak exclusively with him. However, at the DEA office, Hector spells out vulgar insults before Hank ends the meeting and sends him back to the nursing home. Tyrus, who is monitoring Hank, sees Hector being loaded into a van at DEA headquarters. He informs Gus that Hector has turned informant, unwittingly playing into his and Walt's trap.
After Hector is returned to the nursing home, Tyrus enters and sweeps the place for bugs and cameras. Meanwhile, the police inform Jesse that ricin was not found in Brock's blood, meaning he is free to go. However, as he is walking on the sidewalk, Jesse is tazed and abducted by two of Gus's men. Tyrus calls Gus to report both Jesse's kidnapping and Hector's apparent betrayal. He offers to take care of Hector himself, but Gus insists that, "I do this".
Gus Fring's demise
Gus is driven to the nursing home and waits in the car as Tyrus again sweeps Hector's room. Once inside, Gus berates Hector for supposedly ratting him out to the DEA. Tyrus hands a syringe to Gus, who once again challenges Hector to look at him. However, to his surprise, Hector actually does so, his gaze shifting from resignation to pure hatred. He begins ringing his bell, which Gus realizes too late is the trigger for Walt's pipe bomb, affixed under the wheelchair. Before Gus can escape, an explosion rips through Hector's room, killing Hector and Tyrus in the process. Gus survives the initial blast, but he is mortally wounded from having half of his face blown off; he walks into the corridor, adjusts his tie, and drops dead. Elsewhere, Walt sits in his rental car near the airport, listening to the radio. Upon hearing from a breaking news report that three people died in the explosion, Walt smiles and drives off.
In the superlab, Jesse prepares for another batch while being monitored by one of Gus' men. Upon hearing the lab's elevator, the henchman handcuffs Jesse to the lab equipment while he investigates. At the elevator, Walt suddenly appears and shoots both the henchman and his partner. Walt cooly enters the lab tells Jesse that Gus is dead. The two open all of the chemical containers in the lab, flooding the floor with flammable chemicals, then rig a timer to a frayed wire and leave. They wipe down the laundry machine at the lab's entrance for prints and pull the fire alarm as the chemicals ignite downstairs. The superlab explodes as Walt, Jesse, and the laundry workers flee on the surface.
"I won."
Walt and Jesse meet on the roof of the hospital parking garage. To Walt's relief, Jesse says that Brock is going to recover, and that he was poisoned by a venomous plant called Lily of the Valley; Gus did not poison him with ricin after all. Walt reassures him that Gus needed to die nonetheless. Walt calls Skyler, who is watching news coverage about the explosion with the rest of the family. When she warily asks if the explosion was his doing, he replies simply: "I won". Driving out of the parking garage, Walt passes Gus' car. Elsewhere, the camera closes in on the Lily of the Valley plant next to Walt's pool, revealing that he was the person who poisoned Brock.

At a Denny's restaurant, a man served his breakfast: bacon, eggs, and hashbrowns. The man breaks his bacon strips in half, then arranges the pieces into the number 52, referencing the White family's birthday tradition. The man is revealed to be Walter White – in deteriorating health and sporting a different pair of glasses, a full head of hair, an unkempt beard and no wedding band. It is a year into the future.
Walt gives a false name and bears a fake ID from New Hampshire. Excusing himself to the bathroom, he meets with Lawson, his previous gun dealer. Exchanging an envelope of cash for a set of keys, Walt asks if Lawson has included instructions; Lawson replies that he printed some pages from the internet. Walt gives his word that "it" won't cross the border. He exits the restaurant and goes to his car to retrieve a duffle bag. Then he locates the car that the keys from Lawson belong to. In the trunk, "it" is revealed to be an M60 machine gun. Walt looks around cautiously, drops his bag with the gun and closes the trunk.
Immediately following the death of Gus and the destruction of the superlab, Walt returns home and disposes of all the evidence linking him to the pipe bomb, then quickly remembers to also throw out the potted Lily of the Valley plant from which he took the toxin used to poison Brock. Skyler and Walt Jr. return shortly after and, although Junior is excited that Gus' death means Hank will be labeled a hero, Skyler warily tells Walt that she is now terrified of him. Walt takes a drink of celebratory whiskey, but suddenly remembers a detail he has overlooked.
Meanwhile, Hank and Gomez survey the charred remains of the superlab, noting that it was identical to the designs found in Gale Boetticher's notebook. Gomez remarks that the bodies found in the ruins – who were shot by Walt – have been burned beyond recognition. Hank discovers the remains of the lab's security camera.
The meeting in the desert
In Mexico, Mike feeds chickens outside the makeshift hospital where he has been recuperating from the shootout with the Cartel. After Barry Goodman informs him of Gus' death, he immediately drives off in a fury. When he crosses paths with Walt and Jesse in the desert, he immediately pulls a gun on Walt but is compelled to stand down by Jesse. The duo asks Mike where Gus kept the footage from the security camera – reminding Mike that footage would implicate all three of them. Meanwhile, Hank is at Los Pollos Hermanos and watches as the laptop is collected as evidence.
Mike fakes a call to the Albuquerque Police, finding out that the laptop has been placed in their evidence room. He tells Walt and Jesse that the laptop is now completely inaccessible and that their best option is to leave the city permanently. Walt suggests that they somehow break into the evidence room, which Mike angrily resists. As they argue, Jesse suggests that they use a giant magnet to destroy the laptop. Acting on this idea, the trio meet with Old Joe at his junkyard to borrow an industrial magnet he uses to move wrecked cars. Mike has doubts about the plan and wants to wash his hands of the situation, but Jesse convinces him the plan can only succeed if the three of them work together. Meanwhile, Saul visits Skyler at the car wash to inform her that Ted had an accident and has just woken up from a coma.
At the junkyard, Walt, Jesse and Mike conduct a preliminary test of by affixing the massive magnet to the interior side of a moving truck, wired to forty-two car batteries. After the magnet is activated, Jesse slowly approaches the truck with a laptop. After a few moments, the proximity to the magnet disables the hard drive on the laptop, then causes the laptop to fly out of Jesse's hands and smash onto the side of the truck. Everyone is equally surprised and elated to see that the test is a success, congratulating Jesse for his idea.
Ted in the hospital
Meanwhile, Skyler visits the hospital and finds Ted, who is being treated for severe head trauma and placed inside a halo brace. Skyler, her face etched with guilt, can hardly find the words of apology she wants to say. Ironically, Ted exhibits the same fear for Skyler that she now has for Walt, having assumed that she had personally sent Huell and Kuby to threaten him. With that in mind, and mentioning that he has a family, he promises to never speak a word about what transpired. Seeing that the situation with Ted is now resolved, Skyler regains her confidence and replies, "Good."
That night, Mike hotwires the gate into the APD parking lot. Walt and Jesse drive the magnet-equipped truck alongside the wall outside the evidence room. The magnet disables the guard's computer, alerting the police. Determined to ensure that the operation will work, Walt cranks the magnet up to its maximum voltage, sending a force so strong it tips the truck over against the wall. Police burst into the evidence room to see all the metallic material stuck to the center of one wall; they head outside to find the truck empty. Walt and Jesse escape with Mike in his car. Mike is doubtful of the ploy's success, but Walt insists that no fingerprints or traceable evidence were left behind. Mike argues why they should be so certain that it worked. Walt, sitting smugly in the backseat, responds: "Because I say so." Mike and Jesse are uneasy with Walt's comment.
The note behind the photo
As police officers clean up the evidence room, they find a smashed picture frame bearing a photo of Gus and Max Arciniega. When they inspect the picture more closely, they find a sheet of paper hidden behind the photo showing a list of account numbers for a bank in the Cayman Islands.
The following day, at Saul's office, Saul tries to explain to Walt why Skyler gave $600,000 to Ted. Walt reprimands Saul for allowing his wife to give such a large amount to a man she was sleeping with. Saul, exasperated by this ungratefulness, lambasts Walt for making him hold onto the ricin cigarette and becoming privy to the poisoning of a child. He attempts to sever all ties, insisting "We're done". However, Walt rises out of his seat and backs Saul into a corner of the office, menacingly telling him, "We're done when I say we're done." That night, Walt returns home to a frightened Skyler and tells her that he knows what happened to Ted, why she did it and that he forgives her. She hesitantly accepts his hug.
According to Vince Gilligan in an interview, their original plan for the outcome of the M60 question was for Walt to use the M60 to save Jesse from Jack's gang. The plan was for Jesse to be arrested, convicted and heading to prison, and Jacks' gang would be on the way to kill him while he was in a prison bus. However, they scrapped the idea because they knew that Walt "wasn't Rambo".[1]

At a test kitchen in Germany, Peter Schuler, an executive for Madrigal Electromotive, glumly tastes a variety of dipping sauces. His secretary interrupts to inform him that the polizei have arrived. On his way to his office, Peter walks through the building's lobby while a large sign for Los Pollos Hermanos being removed by a work crew. With a blank expression on his face, he grabs a nearby automatic defibrillator and locks himself in a bathroom. As the polizei pound on the door, Peter places one of the AED contacts on his chest and the other in his mouth after stripping the wire. He fatally electrocutes himself on the toilet.
Jesse finds the fake Ricin cigarette
Jesse phones Walt in a panic and tells him that the ricin cigarette is still missing, fearing an innocent bystander might find it. After promising to help Jesse look for it, Walt fills a similar vial with salt and creates a duplicate cigarette. He then stashes the real ricin — which he retrieved from Saul — behind a wall outlet cover in his bedroom. Walt then helps Jesse toss his house in search of the cigarette, planting the fake cigarette in Jesse's Roomba for him to find. Devastated, Jesse apologizes for accusing Walt of poisoning Brock. The duo visit Mike and tell him they plan to start cooking again; Mike refuses to partner up, assessing that Walt is a "time bomb" waiting to go off.
Hank, Gomez, and ASAC George Merkert meet with several Madrigal executives, some having flown in from overseas. Among them is Lydia Rodarte-Quayle, an executive from the company's Houston office. The head of Madrigal pledges his company's full cooperation with the DEA. Afterward, Hank and Gomez share a drink with Merkert, who is being quietly pushed out of the agency for his personal relationship with Gus and for failing to heed Hank's warnings about Gus' drug empire. Hank tells Merkert that Gus' laptop was encrypted and thus unlikely to yield much evidence, despite the evidence room debacle. Gomez mentions the Albuquerque Police's discovery of Gus's offshore bank accounts as a possible lead. Merkert mentions how Gus was close to him, yet somebody else completely.
Lydia meets with Mike
Lydia meets with Mike at a diner, handing him a list of eleven men who were on Gus' payroll; she surreptitiously suggests Mike kill them before they can implicate Mike or herself. Mike shoots down the idea, vouching for the integrity of his men — they are paid to stand up to the heat, and they will. Meanwhile, a depressed Skyler refuses to get out of bed. Walt suggests she take a shower to feel better, and she wordlessly obliges; after this eerie absolution, she seems like a shadow of herself.
As he walks into the DEA office downtown, Mike sees Duane Chow, Gus' chemical supplier, exiting from his own interview. Under questioning from Hank and Gomez, Mike states that he worked for Los Pollos Hermanos as head of corporate security. Hank doesn't buy his story but admits he doesn't have enough evidence to arrest him. Mike gets up to leave, only to stop in his tracks when Hank mentions the money held in the name of Mike's granddaughter Kaylee — the only non-Pollos employee listed — in Gus' offshore accounts. Mike denies any knowledge of the accounts, apparently resistant to the agents' pressure even with the knowledge that the DEA has seized his money.
Walt and Jesse visit Saul to discuss finding a new venue for a meth lab, preferably nearby and not in an RV. Saul says an in-town venue will be difficult, but Walt insists that if Gus could do it, they should be able to do it as well. Jesse reports that he was able to find all the precursor chemicals except for methylamine. Walt tells Jesse to keep looking, but doubts he'll be able to scare any up. When Saul advises they pull out of the meth business, Walt shoots him down and claims that he's broke.
Mike kills Chris
Meanwhile, Mike is playing with his granddaughter when Chow calls, saying that the DEA threatened to take his money and that he needs Mike to come talk to home at his home; Mike agrees. Chow hangs up and looks at Chris — one of Mike's former henchmen — who is holding him at gunpoint; Chris kills Chow offscreen. When Mike approaches the front door, Chris puts the muzzle of his gun to the peephole. He hears a strange sound and looks through the peephole, where he sees an animatronic toy belonging to Kaylee suspended from the door frame. Suddenly, Mike appears behind Chris and orders him to drop his gun. Chris admits that Lydia was going to pay him $30,000 to kill Mike and $10,000 for each man on her list, starting with Chow. A disappointed Mike shoots Chris dead.
That night, Mike travels to Houston, sneaks into Lydia's house and pulls her into a bedroom at gunpoint. Lydia begs him to leave her body in the house so that her daughter won't think she was abandoned. On the verge of shooting her, something stops him. Hesitantly, he asks if Lydia can still get her hands on methylamine. Clearly in a corner, and not happy about the decision he's about to make, Mike calls Walt and agrees to a partnership. Walt, satisfied with how things are turning out, washes dishes. Later, he climbs into bed with Skyler, who refuses to face him.
Posing as a paralegal, Mike visits the jail to see Dennis Markowski, the manager of Gus' industrial laundry, accompanied by Dennis's lawyer, Dan Wachsberger. Mike reassures Dennis that the deal he had with Gus is still in place. Dennis swears he's loyal but is fearful that someone else will talk after the feds seized their money. Mike guarantees everyone will be compensated as he's setting up a new operation. Dennis agrees to stay quiet. In the hallway, Mike and Dan go through the list of Mike's guys and where they're being held, planning to visit all of them.
At the White residence, Walt is in high spirits as he unpacks boxes in the bedroom; he has decided to move back in. As he's unpacking, Walt comes across the copy of Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass given to him by Gale Boetticher. Skyler arrives home and, seeing Walt unpacking, apprehensively questions whether this is a good idea. Walt insists that it's the way it should be. Skyler's look of worry intensifies.
Mike waits outside Saul's office while Huell guards the door. Inside, Walt and Jesse assuage Saul's doubts about working with Mike, who once threatened to break Saul's legs. Upon being allowed into the office, Mike lays down ground rules for their new meth operation: he runs the business while Walt and Jesse cover production. Saul privately asks Walt if he's okay with the arrangement, but Walt is unfazed: "He handles the business, and I handle him."
Saul takes the team on a tour of potential lab venues around the city, including a box factory, a tortilla facility, and Lazer Base. Walt, Jesse, and Mike nix them all, spotting logistical problems with each. Jesse and Mike are ready to dismiss the final venue, Vamonos Pest, but Walt, noticing a folded-up fumigation tent on the floor, immediately lights up and declares, "It's perfect."
The new plan to cook meth
The next day, the four watch the Vamonos workers as they tent an infested house. Walt explains his plan: if they cook inside residences undergoing fumigation using a mobile lab apparatus, no one will bother them or investigate strange smells. Saul explains that the Vamonos crew, run by a man named Ira, runs a burglary operation on the side - they copy the homeowners' keys and sell information about the houses' security measures and valuables to other criminals, or come back to burglarize the places themselves. Mike proposes a vote.
Skinny Pete (who is revealed to have a talent with classical piano) and Badger purchase four large equipment cases from a guitar store. While delivering the cases to Vamonos, they ask Jesse to get in on the new business; Jesse — noticing a stern look from Mike — declines. Mike debriefs the Vamonos crew and forbids them from burglarizing houses in which Walt and Jesse conduct their cooking. He also orders them never to engage with the duo without an invitation and to treat them as if they're "ghosts".
At Jesse's house, he and Walt finalize plans for the mobile lab. They are paid an unannounced visit by Andrea and her son Brock. Andrea invites Walt to stay for dinner. Walt sits uncomfortably with Brock on the couch; it's impossible to say if the boy recognizes Walt as the man who poisoned him, but Walt is visibly uncomfortable in the child's presence. Brock glares at Walt but says nothing, turning his attention to a video game.
Walter and Jesse preparing the lab
After the homeowners leave, Walt and Jesse pull up to an infested house in a Vamonos truck. A Vamonos employee, Todd Alquist, approaches Walt and informs him that he has disabled a nanny-cam in the living room. Walt is impressed with Todd's initiative. He and Jesse assemble the lab from the equipment cases and cook in a sealed tent inside the house. During a break, they watch TV and drink beer on the living room couch. Walt manipulates Jesse into ending his relationship with Andrea, implying that he can't continue seeing her if he cannot tell her the truth about his work.
At the car wash, Marie tells Skyler that Hank has returned to work at the DEA. She insists that Skyler plan a party for Walt's upcoming 51st birthday. When Skyler takes out a cigarette, Marie begins to chastise her as she hasn't smoked in years. Skyler, already on edge, is pushed into an emotional breakdown and repeatedly shouts at Marie to shut up. Marie, initially hurt, is soon concerned by the outburst.
As they leave the house, Jesse sets off the fumigation system to finish the pest control work — the thick fog masks any trace of their own production fumes. Upon arriving home, Walt finds a worried Marie waiting for him. Marie recounts Skyler's breakdown and presses Walt to disclose its cause. Walt, cornered and wanting to deflect suspicion, tells her about Skyler's affair with Ted, who is now in the hospital. He begs Marie to keep it a secret and not mention anything to Hank or Skyler. Marie leaves dumbfounded.
Walter, Walter Jr. and Holly watching Scarface
That night, at Jesse's house, Andrea notices Jesse zoning out while she and Brock are playing a video game. Meanwhile, back at the White residence, Skyler finds Walt, Walt Jr. and Holly watching Scarface in the living room. She stares silently but disapprovingly as father and son revel in the movie's violent climax. Hearing her son discuss the violence so nonchalantly, Skyler is unsettled.
The hazard pay erupts an intense discussion between Mike and Walter
Back at the Vamonos office, Mike divides the profit into three piles — $367,000 each. He takes money from each pile to pay for Ira's crew, distribution drivers, as well as "legacy costs" to Mike's men in jail. Walt is outraged that Mike is deducting his money. Jesse, uncomfortable with the confrontation, offers to cover Walt's share. Walt finally relents, insisting he'll pay his own way, but bitterly complaining at his net reduced profit. After Mike leaves, Jesse reports that he has broken up with Andrea. Walt, however, is focused on the money. Bringing up Victor, he surmises that Gus didn't kill him just to send a message.

Walt and Walt Jr. visit an auto repair shop, where a mechanic has made repairs to Walt's Pontiac Aztek. Walt offers to trade the Aztek to the mechanic for $100 and immediately lowers it to $50, which the mechanic eventually accepts. Back at the White residence, Walt arrives in a brand-new black Chrysler 300. With some silent prompting by Walt Jr., he further trades Junior's PT Cruiser for a new Dodge Challenger. Father and son beam at each other as they rev up their engines.
At the Houston office of Madrigal, Lydia anxiously sits at her desk during a conference call with her superiors in Germany. Seconds after receiving a call from Mike, Hank and the DEA arrive to question her. She leads them into a warehouse and directs their attention to the foreman, Ron Forenall, who is promptly arrested. Lydia calls Mike to tell him that the methylamine transport will be cut off due to Ron's arrest. Mike informs her that he will send someone else.
At the White residence, Walt and Junior debate about who between them would win in a drag race while Skyler silently eats. In the bedroom, Walt gives Skyler $20,000 to launder. Realizing that Walt is back in the drug game, Skyler tells him that she wants the kids to leave the house for a period of time. Walt dismisses her concerns, and tells her that he is looking forward to a party and chocolate cake for his 51st birthday the following day.
During breakfast the next day, Skyler seemingly forgets to shape Walt's bacon into "51", in keeping with the White family tradition. When Junior pressures her into doing so, she reluctantly obliges after taking the bacon from Junior's own plate.
At the DEA field office, Hank and Gomez go over a diagram of Gus' drug empire. The agents are concerned that no one in prison is talking and that Blue Sky has reappeared on the streets. Figuring someone is keeping them in line, they decide that Mike is their best lead and agree to follow him. SAC Ramey, visiting from El Paso, enters the room and asks to talk privately to Hank. He offers to promote Hank to the position of ASAC (Assistant Special Agent in Charge) for Albuquerque, but tells him that accepting the promotion will require taking him off the Gus Fring investigation. Hank accepts the promotion.
At a house being treated by Vamonos Pest, Walt and Jesse break down their mobile lab. Walt leaves early for his birthday party. When he arrives home, he is disappointed to see Skyler preparing a store-bought meal. Meanwhile, while driving to the White residence, Hank pesters Marie until she reveals that Walt told her about Skyler's affair. As the four sit down for dinner, Skyler continues to be silent and sullen. Walt makes a speech about how grateful he is for the family's support during the past year. As he's talking, Skyler slowly walks into the pool and sinks to the bottom, apparently an attempted suicide. Walt dives in after her.
Jesse arrives at the Madrigal warehouse in Houston, sent to retrieve a barrel of methylamine from a hesitant Lydia. While Jesse is lowering the barrel with a forklift, Lydia finds a GPS device attached to the bottom. Meanwhile, at the White residence, Walt, Hank, and Marie sit down to talk after Skyler is taken to bed. Marie and Hank offer to take Junior and Holly for a short time, divulging that this is Skyler's idea; Walt reluctantly agrees. After the Schraders leave, Walt confronts Skyler in their bedroom. Skyler demands that the kids stay away from the house as long as Walt continues engaging in his criminal activity. Walt challenges her to explain her plan to keep them away from home, shooting down each of her ideas. Skyler admits while she isn't as good at coming up with schemes as Walt is, she does have one option left: to bide her time and wait for Walt's cancer to return.
The next morning, Jesse tells Walt and Mike about the GPS tracker. Mike, thinking that the DEA would be too sloppy by leaving the tracker in an easy place to find, assumes Lydia put it there herself in a bid to get out of their business. Mike prepares to leave, intending to kill her, but Jesse insists they vote on it. Asked for his opinion, Walt tells them that the cooks must not stop under any circumstances. Shortly afterward, in the parking lot, Jesse gives Walt a new TAG Heuer Monaco Chronograph watch for his birthday. Returning home, Walt presents the watch to Skyler and tells her how Jesse wanted to kill him a few weeks prior but came around; he says she will come around too. That night, Walt falls asleep to the watch's ticking.
An adolescent boy, Drew Sharp, rides through the desert on a dirtbike. He stops to play with a tarantula, which he then places into a jar. When he gets back on his bike, Drew hears a freight train in the distance and rides off to follow it.
Walt visits Hank in his new office at the DEA, where Hank remarks on Walt's expensive new watch. As they talk, Walt breaks down in crocodile tears, stating that Skyler no longer loves him and thinks he's a bad father. Uncomfortable with displays of emotion, Hank quickly excuses himself to ostensibly fetch a cup of coffee. With Hank gone as he had intended, Walt plants an ethernet tracking device in Hank's computer and a receiver within a family picture frame on his desk.
Mike giving Lydia instructions
In Houston, Lydia is taken into the basement of an abandoned building by Walt, Jesse and Mike. Mike forces her to call the DEA to sort out the origins of the tracker, supplying her with a prepared script. Listening in to Hank's phone communications, the trackers are revealed to have not come from the Albuquerque field office. Mike and Walt vote to kill Lydia, despite her insisting that she hasn't crossed them. Just as Mike approaches her, the bug picks up a call from the Houston field office confirming to Hank that they placed the trackers, vindicating Lydia. Eager to prove useful to the group, she tells them that they can find an "ocean" of methylamine in the form of a rail-based shipment that passes through New Mexico every week.
Lydia demands a percentage of the profit after providing key transport details for stealing the methylamine, including the exact position of the tanker car carrying it in the freight train's configuration. Mike is skeptical of their ability to complete the heist without killing the locomotive crew, which he thinks is the only viable way to get away "clean".
At the Schrader house, Hank and Marie play with Holly while Walt Jr., again calling himself "Flynn", sullenly refuses to socialize with them. Meanwhile, at Jesse's house, Mike and Walt argue about how to produce meth without methylamine; Mike proposes temporarily using pseudoephedrine, but Walt wants to halt production until they acquire methylamine. The discussion becomes heated, with Walt accusing Mike of being content to merely scrape together the hazard pay for his jailed associates, and Mike in turn suggesting that Walt is hesitant to go through with the train heist. Jesse interjects with an idea: what if they can steal the methylamine and no one realized that the train was robbed?
In McKinley County, Mike, Jesse, Walt, and Todd measure 800 feet of railroad track, the length to reach the tanker car carrying methylamine, finding that the length aligns perfectly with a small trestle; the operation can be completed and be well-hidden from the train's crew. Two plastic chemical drums are buried near the trestle. Todd fills one with water, its weight approximately nine-tenths of the weight of the methylamine they intend to steal, and the other remains empty. The plan is to replace the methylamine with water as the tanker drains, giving the appearance that the Chinese supplier watered down the product, and covering up any indications of theft. Walt and Jesse stress to Todd that no one is to ever know that the heist occurred.
Back at the White residence, Walt comes home to find that Junior has returned and is refusing to come out of his room until he is told what is going on. Wanting to win Skyler over, Walt curtly tells Junior to return to the Schrader house. After Junior leaves, Skyler insists that she will never change her mind about Walt, and negotiates a deal with him: if he agrees to keep the children away from the house while he's engaging in the drug business, she'll launder his proceeds and act as his accomplice without question. Noticing the dirt on his pants, she asks: "Out burying bodies?" He replies: "Robbing a train."
Jesse during the train heist
On the day of the heist, Kuby blocks the railroad crossing with a dump truck, causing the train to screech to a halt. Mike signals to Walt when the crew leave the locomotive to assist Kuby. Jesse scrambles under the tanker car with a hose and begins siphoning methylamine into the empty tank, while at the same time Todd climbs atop the tanker car with another hose. When a meter indicates that over 300 gallons of methylamine has been siphoned into the first tank, Walt turns on a compressor to pump the water from the second tank.
Jesse, Todd and Walt moments before Todd shoots Drew Sharp
The plan appears to be working until a good samaritan offers to push Kuby's truck off the tracks; Mike warns Walt to wrap things up. Walt waits until the last possible moment to finish the operation, forcing Todd to jump off the moving train and Jesse to lay down flat on the tracks, beneath the train. As the train leaves, Walt, Jesse, and Todd celebrate their flawless heist. However, the mood dampens when the three see Drew Sharp, who has witnessed everything. Without warning, Todd pulls out a gun and shoots the boy dead as Jesse yells in protest.
At Vamonos Pest, Mike, Walt, and Todd unload equipment from the train heist. In stunned silence, they unload and dismantle Drew Sharp's motorbike, placing the pieces in a large barrel and dissolving them with hydrochloric acid. They then prepare a barrel for Drew's body. After the grim deed, Jesse smokes outside, anger etched in his face. When Todd joins him and tries to make conversation by remarking that "shit happens," Jesse punches him in the face.
Todd argues his case to Walt, Mike, and Jesse, pointing out that they had insisted on there being no witnesses to the heist. The three men dismiss Todd and discuss his future in their operation. Jesse, appalled by Todd's actions, wants him gone. Walt goes over three options: fire Todd, bearing in mind that he would probably need to be paid for his silence; killing him, which all three men are unwilling to do; and demoting him to his prior work with Vamonos, which would keep him close and in the business as a precaution. While Jesse prefers to fire Todd, Mike and Walt vote to keep him on. Mike delivers the news to Todd, but also threatens him against behaving recklessly again.
Mike at the park
At a park with his granddaughter, Mike is watched by Agents Gomez and Van Oster. Before he leaves, Mike scribbles and hides a note under a nearby garbage can. The DEA agents debate whether to follow Mike or wait for someone to pick up what they assume to be a dead drop. Gomez approaches the note to investigate and finds that it reads: "Fuck You."
Back at his house, Mike listens to a bugged recording from Hank's office in which the DEA agents talk about tailing him until he makes an incriminating mistake. Meanwhile, at the Schrader residence, Skyler visits Holly and breaks into tears, telling her sister that she misses her children but needs them to stay safe, vaguely telling Marie that she and Walt are bad parents and that she is keeping painful secrets. Marie begs her sister to come clean anyway. Just as Skyler is poised to confess everything, Marie divulges that Walt told her about Skyler's affair. Skyler realizes that her husband has framed her as the source of their conflict but withholds her anger from Marie.
Jesse finds out about Drew's disappearance on TV
At a house being bug-bombed by Vamonos, Walt and Jesse watch TV as they wait for their current batch of meth to cook. Their program is interrupted by a news report on Drew Sharp's disappearance, which hits Jesse with a wave of grief. Walt, seeing how distraught he is, offers to finish up the cook while Jesse goes home. Whilst leaving, Jesse is unsettled when he overhears Walt whistling, seemingly unaffected by what happened with Drew. He receives a phone call from Mike as he walks out.
When he delivers the batch to the Vamonos office, Walt is informed that Mike must leave their meth operation due to being followed by the DEA. Walt is taken aback but has no choice but to accept. Jesse, who is also present, tells Walt that he is exiting the drug business as well; he and Mike are selling their shares of the methylamine to Mike's contact in Phoenix for $5 million each. Jesse pleads with Walt to join them, insisting it is no longer safe and that he should be content with making $5 million. Walt declines, explaining that cooking the methylamine would net up to $300 million.
The buyout
The next day, Mike and Jesse meet with the Phoenix contact, Declan, to discuss the sale of the methylamine. He refuses to buy two-thirds of the lot as the price is too high, and instead demands to buy the whole lot in order to remove Blue Sky from competition and increase his own market share.
Jesse visits Walt's house and urges him to join the sale. Walt stands firm and explains his reason: years previously, he sold his 50% stake in Gray Matter Technologies for $5,000; his former partners in the company are now billionaires, and Walt has spent the years since blaming himself for having forgone the money his family would have otherwise been entitled to. Walt states that he isn't in the "meth" or the "money" business; he is in the empire business. Jesse questions whether a "meth empire" is something to be proud of. Skyler returns home and is startled by Jesse's presence. Walt insists that he stay over for dinner, to which she reluctantly accepts. The three have an extremely uncomfortable meal, ending when Skyler jeers at Walt for telling Marie about her affair. After she leaves the table, Walt admits that Skyler removed their children from the house and is waiting for his cancer to kill him. He says the meth business is all he has left and admonishes Jesse for wanting to take it away from him.
Later that night, Walt drives to Vamonos Pest to remove the methylamine, only to find Mike already there. Mike plans on detaining Walt for the entire night until he can sell all 1,000 gallons of methylamine for $15 million, without Walt's permission. At daybreak, Walt is zip-tied to a radiator so Mike can run an errand. Walt manages to escape by chewing through the percolator's power cord and uses the wires to burn through the tie, injuring his wrist in the process.
During Mike's "errand", he and Saul inform the DEA that they have filed a restraining order pertaining to the surveillance. In Saul's car, he and Mike listen to Hank and Gomez plan their next steps. Saul informs Mike that he has at most about twenty-four hours of freedom, which Mike says is enough for what he needs. However, upon returning to the garage, he finds the methylamine gone. Finding Jesse and a smug Walt in the office, Mike angrily pulls out his gun and puts it to Walt's head. Jesse desperately urges him to listen to a plan Walt has come up with, in which Walt gets his methylamine while Jesse and Mike get their buyout. When Mike asks if this is true, Walt replies: "Everybody wins."


In the desert, Walt addresses Declan and his henchmen about the methylamine deal he had previously arranged with Mike and Jesse. Declan is not pleased to hear that Walt is keeping the methylamine for himself. Walt offers to continue cooking Blue Sky, explaining that the difference in quality between his and Declan's product means Walt's product attains a higher yield, which means he has more control over price and by extension a higher profit margin. He offers Declan the chance to buy out Mike's share and oversee Walt's distribution network, guaranteeing that they will make more money than if Declan produced meth on his own. To reinforce his point, Walt demands that Declan "say his name"; Declan resignedly acknowledges Walt as "Heisenberg". The scene ends with Walt (now Heisenberg) saying “you're god damn right”.
At Vamonos Pest, Mike takes his $5 million from Declan and bids farewell to Walt and Jesse, the latter of whom he advises to watch out for himself. As they share a last handshake, Walt glares at them from behind a window. Afterward, Walt and Jesse retrieve the methylamine from the car wash. Skyler begs to be informed what's going on; Walt tells her to just ignore their actions because he has everything under control.
Dan Wachsberger delivering money to Gus' former employees
Dan Wachsberger deposits the hazard pay to Gus' former men at Craddock Marine Bank. These include $15,000 into nine safety deposit boxes and a much larger sum into a tenth that's filled to the brim. In the parking lot, Mike thanks Dan and asks if he'll continue with the remaining funds for the nine families; Dan reassures him that he will.
Later, after hearing through the bug that Hank has secured a search warrant for his house, Mike dumps his surveillance gear and firearms into an old well in the desert. He then hides a duffel bag in the trunk of a second car and leaves it in a long-term parking lot at the airport, hiding the keys nearby. At home, Mike makes a cup of coffee and waits for the DEA to arrive with the search warrant, personally served by a gloating Hank. He watches The Big Heat as they search his residence and find nothing, much to Hank's chagrin.
Walt tries to convince Jesse that there will be no more violence
At Vamonos Pest, Jesse tries to talk to Walt about getting his $5 million so he can leave the drug business. Walt initially pretends as if Jesse isn't leaving, offering to let him set up his own cooking operation. When he still insists on leaving, Walt changes tack and tells Jesse he has nothing else in his life and will turn to drugs again. He acknowledges Jesse's guilt over Drew Sharp's murder and takes offense when Jesse questions whether he feels the same way. Jesse asks how many people will die because of them, and calls out Walt's manipulative promises that no one else will get hurt. He finally gives up and leaves, saying he no longer cares about getting his share of the money. Walt, angered at his slipping control over Jesse, yells after him that he will get nothing.
At a DEA staff meeting, Hank is chastised by SAC Ramey for allowing the Gus Fring investigation to distract him from other cases, ordering him to drop the tail on Mike. Hank and Gomez decide to divert their attention to Dan. Meanwhile, Walt and Todd prepare to cook in a bug-bombed house. Todd attentively takes notes and seems to give his full effort. Walt clearly misses Jesse, but realizes that Todd is performing well as his new assistant. When Walt wants to talk money, more so in an effort to boast and impress, Todd refuses a salary until he better knows what he's doing.
Dan deposits more hazard pay at the bank, but is soon intercepted by Gomez and the DEA. At the White residence, Walt attempts to have a microwave dinner with Skyler, who immediately walks out of the room. The next day, he visits Hank's office with another bout of crocodile tears, pretending that he is distraught about his marriage. Hank again fidgets and is relieved when Walt asks for coffee. Walt quickly removes the bug and the ethernet tracking device], as per Mike's last command, before Hank returns. Gomez calls Hank out of the office, excited to report that Dan has flipped on Mike. An eavesdropping Walt is alarmed.
While visiting the park with Kaylee, Mike receives a call from Dan inquiring his whereabouts. Mike gives his location and hangs up, but is clearly uneasy. Seconds later, Walt calls and tells Mike that Dan has flipped; the police are coming for him at that moment. Seeing a police car pull up across the park, Mike is torn between whether to say goodbye to Kaylee and be arrested or to escape the police and leave her for good. As a second police car appears, he reluctantly decides to flee, presumably leaving behind his granddaughter at the playground.
Saul, Jesse and Walt talking to Mike via cellphone
Mike calls Saul's office and asks for Saul to retrieve his duffel bag from the airport. Saul refuses, speculating that he is being watched since the DEA know he is Mike's lawyer. Jesse immediately offers to help, but Mike refuses as he doesn't want him caught. Finally, Walt agrees to do it. Upon reaching the airport, Walt looks inside the bag — it contains some bundles of cash, a passport, and a handgun in a holster.
Walt and Mike meet next to a riverbank. Walt demands that Mike tell him the names of his nine men before he gives up his bag. Mike refuses and calmly wrenches the bag out of Walt's hand. Walt sarcastically asks for gratitude, leading to a heated argument where both men trade recriminations for the way things have unfolded. Mike gets into his car while Walt, stewing, retrieves something from his Chrysler. Just as Mike discovers that his gun is missing, Walt walks up to his car and shoots him through the window. Mike attempts to drive away but crashes into a nearby rock. Walt is left agape, realizing what he has just done, then runs over only to find the car empty. Following bloody footprints, he finds Mike calmly sitting next to the river. Walt realizes he could have gotten the names from Lydia and apologizes; Mike tells Walt to "shut the fuck up and let me die in peace." The two watch the river in silence until Mike dies and slumps over.
At Vamonos Pest, Walt is observing a fly when Todd informs him that he has disposed of Mike's car. The two open Walt's trunk, where Mike's body is being kept. As they prepare to dissolve the body in acid, Jesse enters and asks if Mike got the money and escaped. Walt avoids giving a direct answer, saying only that he is "gone." Jesse suggests a vote to decide what happens with Mike's men, but Walt tells Jesse that, having quit, he no longer has a vote and Walt will handle them himself. He ushers Jesse out of the garage with a stern glare. The door descends between them.
At Metropolitan Detention Center, Hank rejects a proposed plea deal for Dennis. Meanwhile, at a cafe, Lydia defensively refuses to give Walt the names of Mike's men and the now-incarcerated lawyer who paid their families. She states that she has not written the names down and will only divulge them after her safety is assured. Eager to be of further use to Walt, she proposes a new business plan which involves selling Blue Sky in the Czech Republic, using her connections with Madrigal. After negotiating a 30% commission of their joint business, Lydia gives him the names. After she leaves, Walt lifts his pork pie hat off the table and reveals a hidden ricin capsule, implying that he had intended to kill Lydia before accepting her offer.
Walter at home during the assassination of Gus' former employees
Walt meets with Todd's uncle, Jack Welker, and his neo-Nazi gang. They debate the logistics of killing ten inmates within a two-minute window inside three separate prisons. The next day, Walt paces around his house watching the seconds pass on his watch, while his targets — including Dan, Dennis, Ron Forenall, Andrew Holt, Jack McGann, William Moniz — are shanked, strangled, or burned alive by Jack's imprisoned associates. Walt receives a call from Jack confirming that "it's done". Hank is pulled from a public appearance by Gomez and given the news.
Three days later, Walt visits the Schrader residence and shares a drink with Hank, who feels dejected from the prison murders. Hank reminisces about his first job in college, which involved walking around forests and tagging trees that were slated for logging. He wonders if that job was better than his current one, which he describes as "chasing monsters."
Skyler reveals Walter's accomplishment to him
Walt and Todd resume cooking meth, delivering shipments to Declan and Lydia, the latter of whom exports it to the Czech Republic. Over a period of three months, they perform several cooks in various bug-bombed houses while Skyler launders the drug proceeds and Saul watches the wires. During a visit to her children at the Schrader house, Skyler watches as Holly takes her first assisted steps. Marie makes a comment to Skyler that she and Hank feel they might be "enabling" her and Walt during their marriage troubles. She suggests to Skyler that it might be time for her and Walt to reunite with the children at their own home, in order to heal as a family.
Later that night, Skyler takes Walt to a storage unit she has rented, showing him a gigantic pile of cash that she has created out of his proceeds. She admits that she had been unable to launder or count it all, and asks how big the pile as to be before she is allowed to see her children again. Walt is taken aback by the amount of money he is collected.
Jesse receives an unexpected visit
When Walt goes to the hospital for his routine MRI, he visits the bathroom and notices the paper towel dispenser he punched after receiving news of his remission. He then drops by Jesse's house. In a tense exchange in which Jesse is distrustful of Walt's intent, they reminisce about their old RV. Before he leaves, Walt tells Jesse that he left something for him. Jesse hesitantly edges toward two large duffel bags on his porch and, to his relief, finds they contain the $5 million he is owed. Upon moving the bags inside, he takes out his pistol and switches the safety back on; it is implied he anticipated that Walt would kill him. Returning home, Walt announces that he's "out". Skyler realizes he is telling the truth.
Hank discovers Walter's secret
That weekend, the Whites and the Schraders happily gather around the table beside the pool. Hank excuses himself to use the bathroom. As he sits on the toilet, he looks around for reading material and comes across Walt's copy of Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass. He thumbs to the front of the book and finds an inscription in a familiar handwriting: "To my other favorite W.W. It's an honour working with you. Fondly, G.B." Hank recalls his discussion of Gale Boetticher's lab notes with Walt, finally coming to the uneasy realization that his brother-in-law was "Heisenberg" all along.
In a flashforward, following his purchase of the M60 machine gun, Walt drives up to his former residence, which is now fenced-in and derelict. He grabs a tire iron from the trunk of his car and breaks into the house. Trash and graffiti are everywhere; a group of skateboarders are hanging around the empty backyard pool. Walt notices a single, spray-painted word on the wall of what was his living room: "HEISENBERG." He reaches the bedroom and retrieves the vial of ricin from its hiding spot inside a wall outlet. After exiting the house, Walt notices that he has been sighted by his neighbor, Carol. When he greets her cordially, she drops her groceries in shock.
Hank suffers another panic attack
A stunned Hank leaves the bathroom after discovering the inscription in Walt's copy of Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass. He places the book inside Marie's bag, then leaves the party early with Marie. On the drive home, Hank has a panic attack and plows onto the lawn of a nearby house. He stumbles out of his car while Marie yells for the homeowner to call an ambulance.
Upon coming home from the hospital, Hank assures Marie there is no need for him to see a doctor and makes her promise not to tell Skyler about what happened. He then retrieves the evidence portfolio from Gale Boetticher's murder and lays the evidence out on a table in his garage. Hank compares the handwriting from the Leaves of Grass inscription to the "Favorite W.W." intro in Gale's lab notes; his suspicions are confirmed when he can visually see that both are written in Gale's handwriting.
Lydia scolds Walt for the low quality of Blue Sky
Later, at the car wash, Walt suggests that the Whites purchase a second car wash to launder their money faster. Lydia visits, ostensibly for a wash, and complains to Walt that the quality of the meth being produced has fallen to 68 percent since he left the operation. She wants Walt to return to cooking for at least a few days, but he sternly insists that her problems are none of his concern any longer. Skyler, having noticed that Lydia wants to wash a rental car, asks Walt who she is. He admits that Lydia is a "former business associate" interested in seeing him return but reassures her that he will not. Skyler follows Lydia outside, telling her to leave the car wash and never come back.
The following morning, Hank tells Marie that he is not going into work. On her way out, she sees two DEA agents delivering boxes full of case files, which Hank has placed into the garage. Now alone, Hank pores over evidence related to Gus Fring, Mike Ehrmantraut, and Hector Salamanca. He finally comes across a crude illustration of Heisenberg, which Hank now realizes bears an uncanny resemblance to Walt.
Saul attempts to convince Jesse to keep his money
Skinny Pete and Badger visit Jesse's house and get high. Jesse grows tired of their conversation — consisting of Badger detailing his Star Trek fan script — and retrieves the duffel bags containing his $5 million buyout. He takes the bags to Saul's office, but has trouble getting to see him. Since neither Francesca or Huell can help him see Saul early, he decides to light up a joint to attract attention to himself. Eventually, Saul calls him into the office. Jesse then tells Saul that each bag contains $2.5 million: he wants one bag to go to Mike's granddaughter Kaylee and the other to the parents of Drew Sharp. Saul is uncomfortable with the idea, but Jesse is adamant. After he leaves, Saul calls Walt, who tells him to hang on to the money. He takes the call while taking a course of chemotherapy; his cancer has returned.
Walt begs Jesse to believe he did not kill Mike
Walt shows up at Jesse's house with the money, asking for an explanation. He tells Jesse to stop focusing on the past, saying that he's out of the drug business himself and says there's nothing for them to do but live good lives. A teary-eyed Jesse thinks Mike's granddaughter needs someone to look after her. He further surmises that, since Mike hasn't come after Walt for organizing the murders of his men in prison, that Mike himself must be dead and Walt must know that. Walter denies killing Mike and tries to assuage Jesse's suspicions.
Jesse gives away his "blood money"
Later, Walt excuses himself from dinner and rushes to the bathroom to vomit. He inadvertently peers above the toilet and notices his copy of Leaves of Grass is missing. He continues to search for the book all about the house. When he turns in for bed, Walt becomes wonders whether Hank may have taken the book; he learns from Skyler that he hasn't come to work all week. Now even more suspicious, Walt sneaks outside in the middle of the night and checks the bottom of his car, discovering a tracking device.
That same night, a homeless man knocks on the window of Jesse's parked car at the Dog House, waking him up from a nap. The vagrant asks Jesse if he can spare some change; Jesse gives him an entire stack of cash. The man, though perturbed by this windfall, eventually accepts and Jesse drives off. He drives through an impoverished neighborhood, frantically tossing wads of money into random lawns, desperate to be rid of it all.
Walt menacingly advises Hank to "tread lightly"
The following morning, two agents drop off more case files at Hank's house. As they leave, Walt pulls into the driveway. Hank nervously clears his files from the table. After initially feigning normalcy, Walt shows Hank the tracking device, which is similar to the one they used to track Gus. Hank drops the facade, closing the garage door behind Walt and then knocking him to the floor with a punch to the face. He expresses his disgust with Walt for what he has done. After failing to reason with Hank, Walt reveals that his cancer has returned and that he may not live long enough to be prosecuted. Hank looks at Walt in total disbelief, commenting that he doesn't even know who Walt is any more. Walt menacingly replies that if this is true, then Hank should probably "tread lightly".
In the early hours of the morning, an elderly man leaves his house and starts his pickup truck. He discovers a stack of cash on his driveway. Investigating further, the man finds more money scattered across his neighbors' yards. Following the trail, he finds an abandoned car at a park,its driver's door wide open, and a duffel bag in the passenger seat still half-full with cash. He then follows a squeaking sound and finds Jesse, listlessly spinning on a playground merry-go-round, lying on his back, staring into the sky.
Skyler talking with Hank
Immediately after the confrontation in Hank's garage, Walt tries to call Skyler, only to learn that Hank has reached her first. Walt rushes to the car wash and finds that she has already left. Skyler meets with Hank at a restaurant, where he asks to be allowed to record everything she knows about Walt's criminal activities. Skyler reluctantly tells Hank she thinks a lawyer should be present before she says anything. He states that their interests are the same — to keep the rest of the family safe. Skyler tries to leave but Hank, desperate for her to implicate Walt, grabs her wrist. She repeatedly shouts if she's under arrest, attracting attention; he is forced to allow her to leave.
Walt buries the money
Huell and Kuby visit the storage locker to move Walt's money. Huell can't resist lying down on top of the massive pile of money, savoring the moment; Kuby reluctantly joins him. Meanwhile, Walt, assuming that Skyler has talked to Hank, goes over his options with Saul. When Saul suggests sending Hank to "Belize" — i.e. to have him killed — Walt is outraged that he would propose murdering a family member. Huell and Kuby show up at Saul's office with the money, now contained in seven barrels. Walt gives them a duffel bag of full of cash in return for their services, then drives the van out to the Tohajiilee Indian Reservation, where he spends the night burying the barrels. He puts the GPS coordinates marking the location to money onto a lottery ticket.
Meanwhile, at the White residence, Marie questions Skyler about how long she has known about Walt's criminal activities. She eventually infers that Skyler had known since before Hank was shot. When Skyler reluctantly nods in the affirmative, Marie slaps her and attempts to leave the house with Holly. As the sisters fight over the baby, Hank intervenes and tells Marie to leave the child with her mother. In the car outside, Marie tells Hank that he has to get Walt.
A dirty and exhausted Walt arrives home and is surprised to find Skyler there. She follows him into the bathroom pleading for him to speak to her, telling him that she didn't tell Hank anything. Halfway through undressing, Walt collapses to the floor. When he wakes up hours later, he promises to turn himself if she doesn't give back the money and make his efforts all for nothing. Skyler tells Walt that Hank has no evidence and that their best course of action is to remain silent.
Jack kills Declan
In the Arizona desert, Lydia is driven to Declan's meth lab — a buried bus under a junkyard — and demands that they improve the quality of their product. She suggests they take Todd back, but Declan scoffs at the suggestion. Soon after Lydia presses a button on her watch, Declan and his cook are called to the surface. She then hides in a corner of the bus while gunfire breaks out above-ground. Afterward, Todd helps her out of the lab and suggests that she keep her eyes closed while he helps her navigate through the scattered bodies of Declan's men; Jack executes Declan and his gang takes over the meth operation.
At the Schrader residence, Marie urges Hank to take his evidence against Walt to the DEA. Hank tells her that the minute his superiors find out that "Heisenberg" is Hank's own brother-in-law, his career will be over; at the very least he wants his last act as a lawman to be personally bringing Walt to justice. Hank finally returns to work at the Albuquerque field office, where Gomez tells him that Jesse has been taken in after tossing away his drug money. Hank goes to the interrogation room and asks the detectives to give him a couple of minutes alone with Jesse.

Outside a diner in Arizona, Todd leaves Walt a voicemail about the recent change of management from Declan, requesting that Walt return his call. Inside, he brags to his uncle Jack and his partner Kenny about his role in the train heist, leaving out the killing of Drew Sharp. Afterward, Jack and Kenny visit the bathroom, where Jack nonchalantly wipes blood off his shoe with a paper towel and flushes it down the toilet. The three then leave the diner and haul their methylamine back into New Mexico.
Hank interrogates Jesse
Hank enters the interrogation room and tells Jesse he knows that his brother-in-law is "Heisenberg", which finally jolts Jesse out of his daze. Hank asks Jesse to give up information on Walt, but Jesse sarcastically suggests beating it out of him. Saul arrives and ends the interrogation. After Hank leaves, Saul scolds Jesse for throwing out the money and landing himself in jail. He calls Walt and tells him about the situation.
At the White residence, Walt Jr. tells his father that he's going to visit Marie, as she has requested his help with a computer problem. Walt, realizing that this is merely a ploy to lure his son away, reveals to Walt Jr. that his cancer has returned, prompting him to stay home. When Hank arrives home, Marie chastises him for not telling the DEA about Walt. Meanwhile, Walt sits down in front of a video camera as he begins to film a confession.
Hank and Marie watch Walt's confession video
The Whites and the Schraders have a tense meeting at a taquería. Without admitting anything, Walt asks Hank to stop his investigation, as doing so would devastate his son and destroy the family. Hank insists that Walt won't get off that easily, while Marie suggests that he kill himself in order the spare the family any more suffering. When Walt realizes any further talk is futile, he leaves the Schraders a DVD before he and Skyler leave.
Screening the DVD at home, Hank and Marie watch as Walt falsely claims that Hank was Heisenberg, that he had forced Walt into being his chemist, and that Gus Fring was Hank's partner in the operation. He further claims that Hank's shooting was the result of a hit ordered by Gus, and that Hank retaliated by conspiring with Hector Salamanca to kill Gus, using a bomb that Walt was "forced" to build. Walt makes one truthful statement: that his drug money covered Hank's medical bills following his shooting. Hank deduces that the video is a threat meant to deter him from investigating. However, Marie confesses that she indeed unwittingly took Walt's drug money; Hank realizes that this gives credence to Walt's story. The Schraders seemingly have no recourse.
Jesse confronts Walt about his true intentions
In the desert, Jesse and Saul catch Walt up on what they know — Hank knows some things but hasn't told the DEA. Walt informs Jesse that Saul can contact someone who specializes in creating new identities for criminals, advising him to start over and have a better life. Jesse, fed up with Walt's duplicity, demands that he admit that he needs Jesse to leave for his own benefit instead of falsely portraying it as a magnanimous gesture, asserting that Walt will kill him the same way he killed Mike if he refuses. Walt walks up to Jesse, who wearily flinches at his approach, and holds him in a tight embrace. Jesse does not hug back but nevertheless breaks down into tears, sobbing in Walt's arms.
Walt goes to the car wash and tells an apprehensive Skyler that "it worked", assuring her they're going to be fine. Meanwhile, at the DEA field office, Gomez asks Hank why two of his agents are tailing Saul. Hank calls them off, then leaves the office for the day.
Jesse realizes that Walt poisoned Brock
Jesse is taken to Saul's office, where Saul contacts the Disappearer. Jesse tries to light up a joint, but Saul tells him that the Disappearer will not take him if he's carrying marijuana. Jesse stubs out the joint but refuses to give up his marijuana, placing the bag in his pocket. Thinking about a potential destination, he ultimately chooses Alaska and seems buoyed by the idea. Saul has Huell drop him off at the roadside where he is to be picked up. However, as the Disappearer arrives, Jesse realizes that Huell lifted his bag of weed out of his pocket. He then pieces together that Walt had Huell lift the ricin cigarette from his person months prior and was indeed responsible for poisoning Brock. Jesse walks away from the roadside; the Disappearer drives off as well.
Jesse furiously pours gasoline all over the White Residence
An enraged Jesse returns to Saul's office, barges past Huell, and begins to beat Saul. Saul attempts to retrieve his gun from his desk, but Jesse gets to it first and uses it to threaten him into confessing. Saul admits that Walt did indeed ask for Huell to life the cigarette, but that Walt convinced Saul it was for Jesse's own benefit and that he had no idea Walt would poison Brock. Jesse leaves and steals Saul's car. Saul immediately alerts Walt, who retrieves his revolver from the car wash. At the White residence, Jesse swerves onto the front lawn, grabs a can of gasoline from the trunk, kicks his way into the house, and starts pouring gasoline over all the living room.
Walt parks down the street from the White residence, seeing Saul's car in the driveway and the front door open. He jumps the wall into his backyard and enters the house through the rear patio door. The living room is soaked in gasoline, but there are no signs of Jesse. Walt checks every room in the house to make sure. Searching the car, he finds used meth; Jesse appears to have been using, but mysteriously changed his mind before torching the house.
Walt summons a cleaning crew and a locksmith while Huell takes back Saul's car. Walt is insistent that the cleaning crew remove the scent of gasoline from the living room carpet, but is told this cannot be done. He also leaves a voicemail for Jesse, telling him that they should talk about what happened. As a cover story, Walt soaks his clothes and the driver's seat of his car in gasoline. When Skyler and Walt Jr. return home, he attempts to explain away the scent by claiming that he unintentionally soaked his clothes at a malfunctioning gas pump. Junior urges his father to be truthful, thinking his cancer has caused him to black out again. Walt suggests the family go to a hotel temporarily to escape the fumes.
Skyler talking with Walt
Outside the hotel, Walt meets with Saul and Kuby, urging them to find Jesse. Saul suggests that he put a hit on Jesse, but Walt tells Saul that he never wants to hear such ideas again. In their hotel room, Walt tells Skyler that he just to grab some ice, but she was spying on him and knows he was talking to Saul. Walt reluctantly comes clean, telling her that Jesse found out about something that he did and got angry, prompting him to attempt to burn down their house. Skyler is shocked, saying that she knew someone would eventually attack their home. Walt insists that he and Jesse can make peace. To his surprise, Skyler suggests that they kill Jesse to make sure that this doesn't happen again.
Hours earlier, Jesse drives Saul's car onto Walt's driveway. He snorts a line of meth, grabs the gasoline can from the trunk, breaks into the house, and pours gasoline all over the living room. He is about to torch the house when Hank enters the room and points his gun at Jesse, telling him to calm down. Jesse yells that Walt can't keep getting away with the things he has done, mentioning that he poisoned a child as a means to an end. Hank suggests that there is a better way — he and Jesse can work together to take down Walt once and for all. He takes Jesse to his car and they drive off just as Walt parks at the end of the street, missing Hank's departure by mere seconds.
Marie meets with her therapist and admits that she has contemplated poisoning a "family friend" who betrayed their trust and endangered many lives. Perceiving the therapist's alarm, she tells him that she is only fantasizing. Returning home, Marie notices two of luggage bags waiting for her at the entrance; Hank urges her to leave because he is dealing with something she may not like. After asking what's going on, he tells her that he got Jesse to help him and that he's sleeping in the guest bedroom. Learning this is bad for Walt, Marie insists on staying and helping in any way she can. Jesse's cell phone rings inside Hank's pocket, but he doesn't answer. He listens to Walt's voicemail shortly after.
Walt and Walt Jr. hug by the pool
Walt sits by the hotel pool, deep in thought, when Junior joins him and shares his concerns about his father's mortality. Walt stresses that he will survive this bout of cancer and they hug. Junior heads back to his room as Walt decides to leave Jesse another voice message. 
The following morning, Jesse wakes up and is greeted by Marie, who offers to fetch him coffee. He finds Hank and Gomez setting up a camcorder, which they will use to film Jesse's confession. After showing some initial concern about their approach, Jesse tells them everything that went down between him and Walt, from his murder of Gale Boetticher on Walt's orders to Todd's killing of Drew Sharp. Hours later, Hank and Steve stand silent on the balcony, struggling to process the sheer magnitude of Walt's crimes. Gomez believes Jesse, but they need solid proof to convince the sway the rest of the DEA. Plotting their next move, Hank reveals to Jesse and Gomez that Walt left a second voicemail, asking Jesse to meet him in the plaza the following day at noon. Hank asks Jesse to wear a wire so they can get some concrete evidence on Walt's criminal. Jesse asserts that Walt will try to kill him at the meet. Hank tries to reassure Jesse that Walt will not hurt him, but when Jesse's out of earshot, he tells Gomez that he doesn't care if Jesse is killed — he only cares about catching Walt.
Jesse calling Walt from a payphone
The following day, Hank tapes a wire to Jesse and sends leaves him at the plaza; Walt sits nearby on a bench. Jesse approaches him from behind but notices a hulking man staring at him. Jesse flips the script by calling Walt from a payphone, calling off the meeting and promising to get at Walt "where you really live". A furious Hank picks Jesse up, but Jesse tells him he has a better plan. Back at the plaza, Walt gets up from the bench and passes the hulking man, who in the end was not associated with him at all — he was merely a passerby. Now convinced that Jesse is a liability, Walt gets in his car and calls Todd, telling him that he has "another job" for his uncle.
Jack, Kenny and Lydia observe the final stage of Todd's cook at Jack Welker's Compound. Todd measures the meth at 76% purity, but Lydia is unimpressed and complains that the product does not bear the signature color of Blue Sky. Later, Todd brings her tea and says he can get better at cooking with practice. Realizing that Todd is too close to her, Lydia says that she needs to catch a flight. As she walks away, Todd longingly contemplates the lipstick mark she left on the mug. Just then, he receives the phone call from Walt, requesting Jack's services for "another job". Walt divulges the name of the target: Jesse Pinkman.
Gomez listens to Jesse's plan
Hank and Gomez discuss their options after the failed sting. Jesse tells them that they need solid evidence of Walt's criminal activities, but he got rid of all such evidence except one thing: his money. Jesse admits he doesn't know where the money is, but there may be someone who does. At the Schrader residence, Gomez brings a piece of meat and some new information: Huell has been taken into witness protection. Gomez is worried that Huell will contact Saul; if he does, Gomez will have to stop the investigation. Hank drops the meat onto the floor and tells Jesse that he's up.
At the DEA safe house, Hank and Gomez tell Huell that Walt is getting rid of anyone connected to the poisoning of Brock and that Huell himself is next on the hit list. When Huell calls Hank's bluff, he is shown a fake picture of Jesse with his brains blown out. Huell panics and says that he and Kuby collected Walt's money, which was put into seven barrels and left inside a van; after Walt came back, Huell and Kuby cleaned the van and returned it to the rental agency. Hank and Gomez now have information on which van it was and where it was rented. The two agents leave, with Hank giving a warning to Huell not to use his cell phone or to leave the safe house.
Walt contracts Jack and Kenny to kill Jesse, telling them that he regards Jesse as like a member of his family and that he wants Jesse's death to be quick and painless. He offers to pay triple of what he paid for the prison job, but Jack forgoes any monetary payment and instead asks Walt to oversee a few cooks with Todd instead. When Jack refuses to do the hit otherwise, Walt reluctantly accepts to do only one more cook, and only after Jesse is killed. Jack and Walt come to an agreement. Jack asks where he can find Jesse; Walt doesn't know, but knows a way to lure him out.
Walt visits Andrea
Walt pays a visit to Andrea, telling her that he and Jesse got into an argument and that he now can't find him, suggesting that he is using drugs again. Andrea gives Jesse a call and leaves a voicemail asking him to call her back. When Walt returns to his car, he calls Kenny and another member of Jack Welker's Gang, who are staking out Andrea's house, telling them that Jesse may show up soon. He tells them to remove Jesse's body before Andrea or Brock can see it.
Hank, now in possession of Jesse's cell phone, intercepts the call from Andrea; he is aware that Walt is attempting to set a trap for Jesse and deletes the call. Inside his house, Gomez tells Hank that the rental agency did not have GPS trackers on their vans. Jesse urges them not to give up on finding the money. Hank says that it is very possible that Walt buried his money somewhere in the desert, and Gomez immediately says that there is no way they can simply find out where it is buried. Hank comments that they know that the van didn't have GPS tracker — but Walt doesn't.
Skyler and Walt Jr. talking to Saul
At the car wash, Skyler is teaching Walt Jr. how to ring customers up when Saul arrives to have his car serviced. Skyler is quietly furious at Saul's appearance, while Junior is starstruck. Outside, Saul tells Walt that Huell has disappeared, thinking that Jesse killed him; Walt notices that Saul is wearing a bulletproof vest. Having watched the conversation, Skyler asks if they had any "progress" with Jesse. When she returns to the cash register, Walt watches her and his son, afraid for their lives. Moments later, he receives a picture message of a barrel full of money buried in dirt, followed by a taunting phone call from Jesse. He says he's going to burn all of the money if Walt doesn't come to meet him.
Walt rushes to his car and speeds to Tohajiilee Indian Reservation, where he has buried his money. He demands that Jesse not burn it, insisting that it is meant for his children. He further angrily insists that he only poisoned Brock to have Jesse on his side to kill Gus, and states that he committed other murders — Emilio Koyama, Krazy-8, and the rival dealers — to save Jesse as well as himself. Arriving at the reservation, Walt notices that there is no sign of Jesse anywhere around the area where the money is buried; he has been lured into a trap.
Walt spots a vehicle approaching
Walt sees an SUV approaching through the desert. He hides behind a rock and contacts Jack, assuming that Jesse has sent a hit squad to kill him. Jack signals his men to prepare for combat while Walt gives him the GPS coordinates. Walt then realizes that Jesse has come with Hank and Gomez. Not wanting for Hank to be killed, he immediately tells Jack to call off the assault. As Hank calls out for him, Walt stares in silence and sadness, knowing that Jesse betrayed him and ensured his defeat.
Walt calls Jesse a coward
Walt emerges from his hiding spot, gun in hand, while Hank and Gomez command him to surrender. He follows each of their instructions until Hank finally handcuffs him and reads him his rights. Walt sees Jesse and calls him a "coward", to which he responds by spitting in his face; the two try to fight but are separated by the agents. After putting Walt in the SUV, Hank calls Marie to share the news of the arrest and says that while the following weeks are going to be hard for them, it will get better. Marie is overjoyed that Walt has been caught. Hank hangs up.
Inside the SUV, Walt sees Jack's gang arriving in two vehicles. Jack, Kenny, Todd and three other neo-Nazis spill out of the vehicles and draw their weapons; Hank and Gomez draw theirs in response. Jesse takes cover inside Walt's car, while Walt screams at Jack multiple times not to shoot. The agents and the neo-Nazis share a moment of tension before Kenny opens fire, and both parties begin spraying bullets at each other. Hank and Gomez find temporary safety behind the SUV but are badly outnumbered and outgunned. Walt tries to get down as bullets start to rip the SUV apart.


In a flashback to Walt and Jesse's first cook inside the RV at the Tohajiilee Indian Reservation, Walt explains the chemical reactions of the cooking process as they wait for the batch to cool. Jesse brushes him off and nearly lights a cigarette before Walt tells him to do it outside. Stepping away from the cook site, Walt calls Skyler and falsely tells her that Bogdan is keeping him at the car wash. The two contemplate the name "Holly" for their baby before saying their goodbyes. Walt, Jesse, and the RV all fade to the desert setting of To'hajiilee.
Hank's final moments
Twenty months later, at the same location of the first cook, the shootout between Hank, Gomez, and Jack Welker's Gang ends. Gomez dies, while Hank is shot in the leg. Hank tries to crawl towards Gomez's shotgun, but Jack approaches and stops him from doing so. Upon learning that he and Gomez are DEA agents, Jack prepares to execute Hank; Walt, still handcuffed inside the SUV, yells at Jack, telling him not to do it. He is then brought before Jack, he then pleads for Hank's life. Walt reveals that Hank is his brother-in-law, and offers to give Jack his buried $80 million if they let him go. Hank refuses to cooperate, telling Walt that Jack has already made up his mind. Jack kills Hank by shooting him in the head. Walt is horror struck; he drops to his knees and falls to the ground on his side, crying.
Jack acquires assurance from Walt
Now knowing about the buried money, Jack and Kenny trace the GPS coordinates given to them by Walt and soon dig up all of the seven barrels. As he is lying on the ground, Walt notices something beneath his car. The neo-Nazis load the barrels onto the back of their pickup truck and bury Hank and Gomez in the hole where they dug out the barrels from. Todd convinces Jack to leave one of the barrels for Walt as a gesture of apology; Jack orders his men to load the barrel into Walt's car. After Walt's handcuffs are removed, Jack shakes Walt's hands and says that there's no need for hard feelings over what just happened.
Todd insists to question Jesse personally
Walt tells Jack he still owes him a hit on Jesse, revealing that he was hiding under the car during the shooting the whole time. The neo-Nazis drag Jesse out; Jack points his gun at Jesse's head and Walt gives a nod of approval to pull the trigger, but Todd intervenes and suggests they interrogate Jesse about what he told the DEA. Jack promises to kill Jesse once they are done with the interrogation. While Jesse is being forcibly escorted to the truck, Walt reveals that he watched Jane Margolis die without trying to help her. A horror-struck Jesse becomes limp as he is hauled off. Walt sullenly returns to his car as the gang leaves, taking the SUV with them. Walt takes one final look at the place where Hank was buried, and then drives away.
Skyler and Marie discuss Walt's arrest
Driving out of the reservation, Walt's car runs out of gas — a bullet from the shootout has pierced his tank. He decides to roll his one remaining barrel through the desert until he arrives at a Navajo man's house and buys his truck with $10,000.
Meanwhile, at the car wash, Skyler becomes worried by Walt's continued absence and leaves him a voicemail. Marie, unaware of the drastic turn of events, shows up and tells Skyler they need to talk in her office. There, Marie reveals that Hank, working with Gomez and Jesse, arrested Walt and collected enough evidence to put him behind bars. She tells her sister that she still believes there is good in her, and that to redeem herself she must give up all copies of the slanderous video Walt filmed. She also demands that Skyler to come clean to Walt Jr., saying that she will tell him herself if Skyler doesn't.
Jesse is kidnapped by the neo-Nazis
Some time later, a badly beaten Jesse wakes up in the bottom of a concrete cellar at Jack's compound. As Todd drops down a ladder, Jesse pleads that he has told them everything already — that Hank and Gomez were working alone and his video confession is at the Schrader residence. Todd takes Jesse a warehouse, where Jack's gang have set up their meth lab; he is tethered to a hanging wire on a rail to keep him from escaping. Jesse notices a photo on a steel bar on the other end of the lab: it is of Andrea and Brock. Todd reappears, wearing a yellow hazmat suit.
At the car wash, Walt Jr., incredulous at what he is hearing, curses at his mother and aunt and calls them liars. They both stress that what they are telling him is true. Junior tries to call his father and furiously storms out of his mother's office. As Skyler cries, Marie tells her to get her kids home, since it's better for them to regroup as a family at the moment.
Walt tells his family that they need to leave town
Walt arrives home first and runs into the house, frantically packing suitcases for his family. Skyler and Junior find him throwing his bags inside the truck. Walt frantically tells his family to pack, but Junior demands to know the truth about Marie's accusations, while Skyler demands to know how Walt escaped Hank's custody. Walt tries to evade the questions, saying everything will be all right if they trust him. Skyler realizes that Hank is dead and accuses Walt of killing him. Walt denies this, telling her he tried to save him.
Skyler holds a knife against Walt
Skyler grabs a knife from the kitchen, the death of Hank being the last straw. Shielding Junior, she demands that Walt leave the house and never to come back. Walt tries to persuade her to put down the knife, but she slashes at him and cuts his hand when he makes an approach. This triggers a struggle for the knife between husband and wife, with Junior shouting at them to stop. Walt takes the knife from Skyler, but Junior tackles him and shields his mother. Walt screams at them, only to realize that they are now terrified of him. Junior calls 9-1-1. Walt acts quickly, grabbing Holly from her crib and taking off in the truck. Skyler chases them down the street, screaming for Holly as Walt drives away.
Walt, his injured hand wrapped in duct tape, changes Holly in a public restroom. A bloodstained diaper lies on the sink before Walt throws it in the trash. Walt hugs Holly, but she utters one of her first words: "Mama."
Walt makes his phone call to Skyler
Back at the White residence, the place is swarming with police while Skyler, Junior, and Marie are sitting in the living room. The phone rings and goes to voicemail: it's Walt demanding that Skyler pick up. Walt, knowing the police are recording the call, seemingly chastises his wife for being ungrateful and not heeding his warnings. Slowly, Skyler realizes he is deliberately giving her an alibi. When asked about what happened to Hank, Walt struggles to recompose himself, saying that they are "never going to see Hank again"; hearing this, Marie breaks down. Skyler asks Walt to give Holly back. Fighting back tears, he responds that he "still has things left to do" and ends the call. He then leaves Holly at a fire station. Early the next morning, Walt waits on a roadside with his luggage and his barrel of $11 million. When the Disappearer arrives, he packs his belonging into his minivan and is driven away.
Writer Moira Walley-Beckett as an extra

Breaking Bad Ozymandias
The Disappearer's red minivan picks up a passenger and drives to a vacuum repair shop. After the Disappearer, a man named Ed, parks inside the rear garage, Saul steps out. Ed takes a photo of Saul and starts working on his new Nebraska ID, saying that he will have to wait at least two days to be transported out of state. In the meantime, Saul will be staying in a downstairs bunker with another client. Knowing the person is Walt, Saul asks how he is doing. Ed shows him a monitor screen with live footage from the bunker, where an impatient Walt paces around the room.
Jack's gang watch Jesse's confession video
SAC Ramey and two DEA agents drive a distraught Marie home; on the way, he promises that they will find Hank and Gomez. They arrive at the Schrader residence to find that somebody has broken in and ransacked the place. One agent drives Marie away from the house while Ramey and the other agent investigate the premises.
It is revealed that Jack's gang broke into the house to steal Jesse's confession DVD, which is screened that night at their compound. After they laugh over Jesse's often-emotional confession, Kenny fast-forwards to Jesse's disclosure that Todd killed Drew Sharp. Suddenly furious, Jack prepares to kill Jesse, but Todd wants to keep him alive so they can keep cooking meth; Jack realizes that Todd wants to impress Lydia. After teasing his nephew, Jack decides to spare Jesse. Meanwhile, in his cage, Jesse is now in possession of the photo of Andrea and Brock from the lab. Attached to the photo is a paperclip, which he uses to unlock his handcuffs.
Walt attempts to intimidate Saul
In Ed's bunker, Walt plots revenge on Jack's gang, asking Saul for a list of mercenaries. Instead, Saul advises Walt to turn himself in so that Skyler can go free, otherwise the police will pressure her until she gives Walt up — which she can't do since she doesn't know where he is. Ed comes to collect Saul, but Walt insists that Saul is coming with him. Saul refuses, saying that he is now a civilian who will be "managing a Cinnabon in Omaha" if he's lucky. Walt tries to threaten Saul into compliance, similar how he did several months earlier, but suffers a coughing fit and collapses. No longer intimidated, Saul tells Walt it's over and leaves.
Skyler is threatened by Jack's gang
Skyler meets with a U.S. Attorney and members of the DEA, including Ramey, who press her for information on Walt. She tells them she can't help them, as she has no idea where he is. That night, at the White residence, Skyler finds three masked men — Todd and two members of Jack's gang — looming over Holly's crib. With Skyler physically restrained, Todd tells her that they have come to leave a message: to forget about "the black-haired lady at the car wash". After Skyler promises to not say anything, the three men leave the house, leaving Skyler severely shaken. The next day, Lydia and Todd meet back-to-back at a café, debating whether to eliminate Skyler. Lydia wants to call the partnership off, but Todd tells her that, with Jesse cooking for them, they have produced meth with 92% purity as well as the signature blue color. Lydia reconsiders.
Walt collects his money at New Hampshire
Walt is transported inside the back of a propane truck. Arriving in the middle of a snowy, forested area, Ed shows Walt his new home — a small cabin in the New Hampshire wilderness. Ed says he will visit on a monthly basis for grocery runs in exchange for a hefty fee. He further explains that Walt will inevitably be caught if he leaves the property, as his face is all over the news. After he leaves, Walt stuffs his pockets with bundles of cash and prepares to leave. He opens the property's gate, but stops and looks at the long road ahead. "Tomorrow," Walt mutters to himself, returning to the cabin and lighting a fire instead.
Todd kills Andrea
Back at Jack's compound, Jesse uses the paperclip to unlock his restraints and tries to reach the cage bars above his head. Hearing Todd approaching, he quickly puts the cuffs back on and pretends to be resting. Bringing ice cream to celebrate a 96% pure batch, Todd tells him they will cook again in the morning. After he leaves, Jesse escapes the cage and runs to the fences, unknowingly running past a security camera. He is quickly caught by the neo-Nazis. Refusing to cook anymore, Jesse tells the gang to just kill him. Instead, they take Jesse, bound and gagged, to Andrea's house. Posing as a friend of Jesse's, Todd lures Andrea outside and shoots her in the head, killing her. Jesse wails in anguish as Jack reminds him, "Remember, there's still the kid."
Ed performs makeshift chemotherapy for Walt
Months later, Walt greets Ed as he arrives for another supply drop. Now sporting a beard and full head of hair, he picks a new pair of glasses and reads through newspapers from Albuquerque. Ed tells him that Skyler is working as a part-time taxi dispatcher, still has custody of her children, and is using her maiden name. He hooks up a homemade chemotherapy rig, injecting Walt with a drip, then prepares to leave. Out of loneliness, Walt asks him to stay a little longer, offering an extra $10,000 for another two hours. Ed agrees to stay for one, and the two play seven-card stud. Seemingly resigned to his fate, Walt asks if Ed would give the barrel of money to his family when he dies. Ed rhetorically asks if Walt thinks he be trusted with such a task. After Ed departs, Walt wakes up to the sound of his wedding ring falling off his thinning finger. After fashioning it into a necklace, Walt fills a box with $100,000 from the barrel. In the morning, he finally leaves the property and walks to the nearest town.
Walt Jr. receives a call from his dad
At J. P. Wynne High School, Walt Jr. (addressed as "Flynn White") is taken to Principal Carmen's office, where he is told that Marie has made a call. Junior discovers that it is actually Walt on the line, calling from a pub in New Hampshire. Walt asks if Junior's friend Louis still lives at the same address and says that he will mail a package containing $100,000 for Junior to pick up. However, disgusted that Walt is trying to send him drug money, Junior yells at his father and wishes him dead before hanging up. Feeling defeated, Walt calls the DEA field office in Albuquerque and asks to speak with the agent in charge of the Walter White investigation; when asked who is calling, he gives his true name and leaves the phone off the hook so the call can be traced.
Walt's unfinished drink
While Walt is drinking at the bar, something on the television catches his interest: Gretchen and Elliott Schwartz are being interviewed by Charlie Rose, who asks them about their recent donation of $28 million to fund drug rehab clinics throughout the Southwest. Rose asks if the couple made the donation as a PR ploy to deflect from their past association with Walt, who helped them launch Gray Matter Technologies. Both deceptively downplay Walt's contribution to the company. As he watches the interview, Walt becomes increasingly angry. Shortly after, local sheriff's deputies raid the pub with guns drawn. However, Walt is already gone, leaving his unfinished whisky, and a $20 bill left to cover it, sitting on the bar.
In New Hampshire, Walt finds an unlocked car and climbs inside, searching for something to start the engine. In the glove compartment, he finds a screwdriver. He tries to use the screwdriver to start the car but fails after several attempts. The flickering lights of a police car appear. As a flashlight passes over the snow-covered car, Walt quietly pleads, "Just get me home. I'll do the rest." The police car leaves without further inspection, and after a moment of intuition, the car's keys drop from the visor onto Walt's lap. He starts the car and begins his drive back to Albuquerque.
Walt sets a meeting with his former business partners
Somewhere in New Mexico, Walt stops at a gas station. At a payphone, he poses as a journalist from The New York Times and gets Elliott and Gretchen's new address, learning that they are returning home that night from their interview with Charlie Rose. After hanging up, Walt leaves his watch — a birthday gift from Jesse — on top of the phone booth.
That night, Elliott and Gretchen return to their luxurious residence in Tesuque. They are too caught up in conversation to notice Walt sitting in their garden. As the Schwartzes prepare dinner, Walt closes the main door and follows them into the house. Gretchen is startled upon spotting him in their living room. Walt casually greets the couple, telling them that he watched their interview. He asks for their help in unloading "something" from his car. Elliott tries to threaten Walt with a small cheese knife, which Walt scoffs at.
Walt threatens Elliot and Gretchen
Moments later, the three of them finish piling $9.72 million in cash onto a coffee table. Walt instructs the Schwartzes to give the money to Walt Jr. on his 18th birthday, set up as an irrevocable trust fund. He insists that any taxes or legal fees associated with transferring the money be taken out of the stash, and that the Schwartzes not use a single penny of their own money. They reluctantly agree. After shaking hands, Walt turns to the window and signals outside to two "hit men", who train lasers on Elliott and Gretchen. Walt warns them that, regardless of what happens to him, the hit men will come for them if they fail to deliver the money. He signals to the assassins to turn off the lasers, then leaves the house. The couple are left shaken.
Down the street from the Schwartz residence, Walt stops his car and picks up the "hit men": Skinny Pete and Badger. After they hand over the laser pointers and Walt give them their payment, he asks if it's true that Blue Sky is still being manufactured and distributed. They reply in the affirmative, assuming that Walt has been cooking again. Walt determines that Jesse is still alive.
Jesse remains as a meth slave-cook for the Jack's gang
In a dreamlike moment, a younger and happier Jesse is finishing a wooden box for his woodworking class back in high school. He is quickly jolted from the daydream, still a prisoner of Jack Welker's Gang and cooking meth at their compound. Jesse is heavily scarred from months of abuse at the hands of Jack and his men.
The following day — Walt's 52nd birthday — Walt stops by Denny's to purchase the M60 machine gun from Lawson and recovers the ricin from his abandoned house. Before leaving the house, Walt stops in the middle of the empty living room and reminisces about his 50th birthday, when Hank invited him for a DEA ride-along that catalyzed his journey into the meth business.
Walt's discussion with Lydia and Todd
Later, Walt intercepts Lydia and Todd as they meet at the café, telling them he has a new meth formula that doesn't require methylamine. He offers to teach Todd this formula in exchange for $1 million. Lydia reluctantly agrees and tells Walt that he can meet with Jack's gang that evening. Walt leaves the café. As Lydia stirs Stevia into her tea, she insinuates that the best thing to do is to kill Walt, stating they would be doing him a favor considering his condition.
In the desert, Walt's M60 and instruction booklet are laid out as he builds a device with a garage door opener connected to a car battery. He switches on the device remotely with his car lock remote. The contraption starts rotating back and forth and he smiles in approval. He notices his wedding band, hanging from his makeshift necklace, and focuses on his next course of action.
Walt says his farewell to Skyler and Holly
In her cramped apartment, Skyler receives a call from Marie, who tells her that Walt was spotted at the house. Skyler asks if Walt has hurt anyone, but Marie states that nothing has apparently happened until now. Marie tells Skyler that Walt is likely searching for his family, saying the police are coming to watch her house and Junior's school. She tells Skyler to be vigilant and safe, then hangs up.
The camera pans to reveal that Walt has been in the room the entire time; Skyler tells him that he has five minutes. Walt tells her that whatever happens by the end of the day, he wanted to give a proper goodbye. Skyler tells him about the masked men who threatened her, but he replies that, after tonight, they won't bother her anymore. He hands over the lottery ticket and tells her to give to the police, as it bears the GPS coordinates where Hank and Gomez are buried. Walt admits to Skyler his true motive for cooking meth: he did it for his own sake - he liked it, he was good at it, and it made him feel alive. As a final request, he asks to see Holly. Skyler looks on sadly as Walt lovingly caresses his daughter for the last time and leaves the apartment. Later, watching from afar, Walt gets a last glimpse of Junior as he comes home from school.
Walt meets with Jack.
That night, Walt drives to Jack's compound and parks his vehicle parallel to gang's clubhouse, opposite the window. After being frisked, Walt enters the clubhouse and is greeted by Jack. Jack falsely claims that the gang is no longer in the meth business and declines Walt's purported offer. Todd menacingly tells Walt that he shouldn't have come back as Kenny puts a gun to his head. Before they can take him outside and execute him, Walt calls Jack a liar for partnering with Jesse instead of killing him as he was hired to do. Angered by Walt's accusation, Jack orders Todd to bring in Jesse to show Walt what sort of "partner" he really is.
Walt's M60 machine gun, concealed within his trunk, opens fire.
Todd takes a shackled Jesse out of the gang's meth lab. When he is brought into the room, Walt sees just how badly he has been treated. Walt feigns anger and tackles Jesse to the floor, using the car remote control to open the trunk and activate the mounted M60. Oscillating on the garage door opener's motor, the machine gun's fire rips through the clubhouse and kills everyone in the gang except Jack and Todd. An M60 bullet shatters a plastic tab on a billiards scorekeeper, and Walt winces as the plastic shrapnel hits him in his side. After the gun runs out of ammo, Jesse takes the opportunity to strangle Todd with his chains, finally snapping his neck. As Walt approaches an injured Jack, in a desperate attempt to save his life, he tries to offer Walt the location of his money. However, this does nothing, as Walt coldly executes Jack by shooting him in the head mid-sentence, in the exact same way he killed Hank.
Walt asks Jesse to shoot him
Freeing himself from his restraints, Jesse faces Walt. After an intense moment, Walt slides his gun to Jesse and urges him to pull the trigger: "You want this." Jesse refuses unless Walt says that he wants it; Walt obliges. Still unable to bring himself to shoot him, and noticing that Walt has been seriously injured, Jesse drops the gun and tells Walt to do it himself. Hearing a ringtone, Walt retrieves Todd's cell phone and answers: it's Lydia, who has fallen seriously ill and is asking if Walt is dead yet. Walt tells her that Jack's gang are all gone, and that Walt had spiked her Stevia with ricin at the café. Lydia starts to panic as Walt calmly says goodbye. Outside the clubhouse, Jesse and Walt share one last look of mutual respect. Jesse gets in Todd's car and speeds out of the compound to freedom, relieved to be alive and free.
Walt dies in the meth lab
As the police lights approach in the distance, Walt walks into the warehouse and looks at the gang's meth lab. In his final moments, he lovingly caresses the equipment before finally succumbing to his injury and collapsing. The camera slowly pans above Walt, having died content, as the police enter the warehouse and secure the premises.
Series Finale poster
