In a flashforward, following his purchase of the M60 machine gun, Walt drives up to his former residence, which is now fenced-in and derelict. He grabs a tire iron from the trunk of his car and breaks into the house. Trash and graffiti are everywhere; a group of skateboarders are hanging around the empty backyard pool. Walt notices a single, spray-painted word on the wall of what was his living room: "HEISENBERG." He reaches the bedroom and retrieves the vial of ricin from its hiding spot inside a wall outlet. After exiting the house, Walt notices that he has been sighted by his neighbor, Carol. When he greets her cordially, she drops her groceries in shock.
Hank suffers another panic attack
A stunned Hank leaves the bathroom after discovering the inscription in Walt's copy of Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass. He places the book inside Marie's bag, then leaves the party early with Marie. On the drive home, Hank has a panic attack and plows onto the lawn of a nearby house. He stumbles out of his car while Marie yells for the homeowner to call an ambulance.
Upon coming home from the hospital, Hank assures Marie there is no need for him to see a doctor and makes her promise not to tell Skyler about what happened. He then retrieves the evidence portfolio from Gale Boetticher's murder and lays the evidence out on a table in his garage. Hank compares the handwriting from the Leaves of Grass inscription to the "Favorite W.W." intro in Gale's lab notes; his suspicions are confirmed when he can visually see that both are written in Gale's handwriting.
Lydia scolds Walt for the low quality of Blue Sky
Later, at the car wash, Walt suggests that the Whites purchase a second car wash to launder their money faster. Lydia visits, ostensibly for a wash, and complains to Walt that the quality of the meth being produced has fallen to 68 percent since he left the operation. She wants Walt to return to cooking for at least a few days, but he sternly insists that her problems are none of his concern any longer. Skyler, having noticed that Lydia wants to wash a rental car, asks Walt who she is. He admits that Lydia is a "former business associate" interested in seeing him return but reassures her that he will not. Skyler follows Lydia outside, telling her to leave the car wash and never come back.
The following morning, Hank tells Marie that he is not going into work. On her way out, she sees two DEA agents delivering boxes full of case files, which Hank has placed into the garage. Now alone, Hank pores over evidence related to Gus Fring, Mike Ehrmantraut, and Hector Salamanca. He finally comes across a crude illustration of Heisenberg, which Hank now realizes bears an uncanny resemblance to Walt.
Saul attempts to convince Jesse to keep his money
Skinny Pete and Badger visit Jesse's house and get high. Jesse grows tired of their conversation — consisting of Badger detailing his Star Trek fan script — and retrieves the duffel bags containing his $5 million buyout. He takes the bags to Saul's office, but has trouble getting to see him. Since neither Francesca or Huell can help him see Saul early, he decides to light up a joint to attract attention to himself. Eventually, Saul calls him into the office. Jesse then tells Saul that each bag contains $2.5 million: he wants one bag to go to Mike's granddaughter Kaylee and the other to the parents of Drew Sharp. Saul is uncomfortable with the idea, but Jesse is adamant. After he leaves, Saul calls Walt, who tells him to hang on to the money. He takes the call while taking a course of chemotherapy; his cancer has returned.
Walt begs Jesse to believe he did not kill Mike
Walt shows up at Jesse's house with the money, asking for an explanation. He tells Jesse to stop focusing on the past, saying that he's out of the drug business himself and says there's nothing for them to do but live good lives. A teary-eyed Jesse thinks Mike's granddaughter needs someone to look after her. He further surmises that, since Mike hasn't come after Walt for organizing the murders of his men in prison, that Mike himself must be dead and Walt must know that. Walter denies killing Mike and tries to assuage Jesse's suspicions.
Jesse gives away his "blood money"
Later, Walt excuses himself from dinner and rushes to the bathroom to vomit. He inadvertently peers above the toilet and notices his copy of Leaves of Grass is missing. He continues to search for the book all about the house. When he turns in for bed, Walt becomes wonders whether Hank may have taken the book; he learns from Skyler that he hasn't come to work all week. Now even more suspicious, Walt sneaks outside in the middle of the night and checks the bottom of his car, discovering a tracking device.
That same night, a homeless man knocks on the window of Jesse's parked car at the Dog House, waking him up from a nap. The vagrant asks Jesse if he can spare some change; Jesse gives him an entire stack of cash. The man, though perturbed by this windfall, eventually accepts and Jesse drives off. He drives through an impoverished neighborhood, frantically tossing wads of money into random lawns, desperate to be rid of it all.
Walt menacingly advises Hank to "tread lightly"
The following morning, two agents drop off more case files at Hank's house. As they leave, Walt pulls into the driveway. Hank nervously clears his files from the table. After initially feigning normalcy, Walt shows Hank the tracking device, which is similar to the one they used to track Gus. Hank drops the facade, closing the garage door behind Walt and then knocking him to the floor with a punch to the face. He expresses his disgust with Walt for what he has done. After failing to reason with Hank, Walt reveals that his cancer has returned and that he may not live long enough to be prosecuted. Hank looks at Walt in total disbelief, commenting that he doesn't even know who Walt is any more. Walt menacingly replies that if this is true, then Hank should probably "tread lightly".
In the early hours of the morning, an elderly man leaves his house and starts his pickup truck. He discovers a stack of cash on his driveway. Investigating further, the man finds more money scattered across his neighbors' yards. Following the trail, he finds an abandoned car at a park,its driver's door wide open, and a duffel bag in the passenger seat still half-full with cash. He then follows a squeaking sound and finds Jesse, listlessly spinning on a playground merry-go-round, lying on his back, staring into the sky.
Skyler talking with Hank
Immediately after the confrontation in Hank's garage, Walt tries to call Skyler, only to learn that Hank has reached her first. Walt rushes to the car wash and finds that she has already left. Skyler meets with Hank at a restaurant, where he asks to be allowed to record everything she knows about Walt's criminal activities. Skyler reluctantly tells Hank she thinks a lawyer should be present before she says anything. He states that their interests are the same — to keep the rest of the family safe. Skyler tries to leave but Hank, desperate for her to implicate Walt, grabs her wrist. She repeatedly shouts if she's under arrest, attracting attention; he is forced to allow her to leave.
Walt buries the money
Huell and Kuby visit the storage locker to move Walt's money. Huell can't resist lying down on top of the massive pile of money, savoring the moment; Kuby reluctantly joins him. Meanwhile, Walt, assuming that Skyler has talked to Hank, goes over his options with Saul. When Saul suggests sending Hank to "Belize" — i.e. to have him killed — Walt is outraged that he would propose murdering a family member. Huell and Kuby show up at Saul's office with the money, now contained in seven barrels. Walt gives them a duffel bag of full of cash in return for their services, then drives the van out to the Tohajiilee Indian Reservation, where he spends the night burying the barrels. He puts the GPS coordinates marking the location to money onto a lottery ticket.
Meanwhile, at the White residence, Marie questions Skyler about how long she has known about Walt's criminal activities. She eventually infers that Skyler had known since before Hank was shot. When Skyler reluctantly nods in the affirmative, Marie slaps her and attempts to leave the house with Holly. As the sisters fight over the baby, Hank intervenes and tells Marie to leave the child with her mother. In the car outside, Marie tells Hank that he has to get Walt.
A dirty and exhausted Walt arrives home and is surprised to find Skyler there. She follows him into the bathroom pleading for him to speak to her, telling him that she didn't tell Hank anything. Halfway through undressing, Walt collapses to the floor. When he wakes up hours later, he promises to turn himself if she doesn't give back the money and make his efforts all for nothing. Skyler tells Walt that Hank has no evidence and that their best course of action is to remain silent.
Jack kills Declan
In the Arizona desert, Lydia is driven to Declan's meth lab — a buried bus under a junkyard — and demands that they improve the quality of their product. She suggests they take Todd back, but Declan scoffs at the suggestion. Soon after Lydia presses a button on her watch, Declan and his cook are called to the surface. She then hides in a corner of the bus while gunfire breaks out above-ground. Afterward, Todd helps her out of the lab and suggests that she keep her eyes closed while he helps her navigate through the scattered bodies of Declan's men; Jack executes Declan and his gang takes over the meth operation.
At the Schrader residence, Marie urges Hank to take his evidence against Walt to the DEA. Hank tells her that the minute his superiors find out that "Heisenberg" is Hank's own brother-in-law, his career will be over; at the very least he wants his last act as a lawman to be personally bringing Walt to justice. Hank finally returns to work at the Albuquerque field office, where Gomez tells him that Jesse has been taken in after tossing away his drug money. Hank goes to the interrogation room and asks the detectives to give him a couple of minutes alone with Jesse.

Outside a diner in Arizona, Todd leaves Walt a voicemail about the recent change of management from Declan, requesting that Walt return his call. Inside, he brags to his uncle Jack and his partner Kenny about his role in the train heist, leaving out the killing of Drew Sharp. Afterward, Jack and Kenny visit the bathroom, where Jack nonchalantly wipes blood off his shoe with a paper towel and flushes it down the toilet. The three then leave the diner and haul their methylamine back into New Mexico.
Hank interrogates Jesse
Hank enters the interrogation room and tells Jesse he knows that his brother-in-law is "Heisenberg", which finally jolts Jesse out of his daze. Hank asks Jesse to give up information on Walt, but Jesse sarcastically suggests beating it out of him. Saul arrives and ends the interrogation. After Hank leaves, Saul scolds Jesse for throwing out the money and landing himself in jail. He calls Walt and tells him about the situation.
At the White residence, Walt Jr. tells his father that he's going to visit Marie, as she has requested his help with a computer problem. Walt, realizing that this is merely a ploy to lure his son away, reveals to Walt Jr. that his cancer has returned, prompting him to stay home. When Hank arrives home, Marie chastises him for not telling the DEA about Walt. Meanwhile, Walt sits down in front of a video camera as he begins to film a confession.
Hank and Marie watch Walt's confession video
The Whites and the Schraders have a tense meeting at a taquería. Without admitting anything, Walt asks Hank to stop his investigation, as doing so would devastate his son and destroy the family. Hank insists that Walt won't get off that easily, while Marie suggests that he kill himself in order the spare the family any more suffering. When Walt realizes any further talk is futile, he leaves the Schraders a DVD before he and Skyler leave.
Screening the DVD at home, Hank and Marie watch as Walt falsely claims that Hank was Heisenberg, that he had forced Walt into being his chemist, and that Gus Fring was Hank's partner in the operation. He further claims that Hank's shooting was the result of a hit ordered by Gus, and that Hank retaliated by conspiring with Hector Salamanca to kill Gus, using a bomb that Walt was "forced" to build. Walt makes one truthful statement: that his drug money covered Hank's medical bills following his shooting. Hank deduces that the video is a threat meant to deter him from investigating. However, Marie confesses that she indeed unwittingly took Walt's drug money; Hank realizes that this gives credence to Walt's story. The Schraders seemingly have no recourse.
Jesse confronts Walt about his true intentions
In the desert, Jesse and Saul catch Walt up on what they know — Hank knows some things but hasn't told the DEA. Walt informs Jesse that Saul can contact someone who specializes in creating new identities for criminals, advising him to start over and have a better life. Jesse, fed up with Walt's duplicity, demands that he admit that he needs Jesse to leave for his own benefit instead of falsely portraying it as a magnanimous gesture, asserting that Walt will kill him the same way he killed Mike if he refuses. Walt walks up to Jesse, who wearily flinches at his approach, and holds him in a tight embrace. Jesse does not hug back but nevertheless breaks down into tears, sobbing in Walt's arms.
Walt goes to the car wash and tells an apprehensive Skyler that "it worked", assuring her they're going to be fine. Meanwhile, at the DEA field office, Gomez asks Hank why two of his agents are tailing Saul. Hank calls them off, then leaves the office for the day.
Jesse realizes that Walt poisoned Brock
Jesse is taken to Saul's office, where Saul contacts the Disappearer. Jesse tries to light up a joint, but Saul tells him that the Disappearer will not take him if he's carrying marijuana. Jesse stubs out the joint but refuses to give up his marijuana, placing the bag in his pocket. Thinking about a potential destination, he ultimately chooses Alaska and seems buoyed by the idea. Saul has Huell drop him off at the roadside where he is to be picked up. However, as the Disappearer arrives, Jesse realizes that Huell lifted his bag of weed out of his pocket. He then pieces together that Walt had Huell lift the ricin cigarette from his person months prior and was indeed responsible for poisoning Brock. Jesse walks away from the roadside; the Disappearer drives off as well.
Jesse furiously pours gasoline all over the White Residence
An enraged Jesse returns to Saul's office, barges past Huell, and begins to beat Saul. Saul attempts to retrieve his gun from his desk, but Jesse gets to it first and uses it to threaten him into confessing. Saul admits that Walt did indeed ask for Huell to life the cigarette, but that Walt convinced Saul it was for Jesse's own benefit and that he had no idea Walt would poison Brock. Jesse leaves and steals Saul's car. Saul immediately alerts Walt, who retrieves his revolver from the car wash. At the White residence, Jesse swerves onto the front lawn, grabs a can of gasoline from the trunk, kicks his way into the house, and starts pouring gasoline over all the living room.
Walt parks down the street from the White residence, seeing Saul's car in the driveway and the front door open. He jumps the wall into his backyard and enters the house through the rear patio door. The living room is soaked in gasoline, but there are no signs of Jesse. Walt checks every room in the house to make sure. Searching the car, he finds used meth; Jesse appears to have been using, but mysteriously changed his mind before torching the house.
Walt summons a cleaning crew and a locksmith while Huell takes back Saul's car. Walt is insistent that the cleaning crew remove the scent of gasoline from the living room carpet, but is told this cannot be done. He also leaves a voicemail for Jesse, telling him that they should talk about what happened. As a cover story, Walt soaks his clothes and the driver's seat of his car in gasoline. When Skyler and Walt Jr. return home, he attempts to explain away the scent by claiming that he unintentionally soaked his clothes at a malfunctioning gas pump. Junior urges his father to be truthful, thinking his cancer has caused him to black out again. Walt suggests the family go to a hotel temporarily to escape the fumes.
Skyler talking with Walt
Outside the hotel, Walt meets with Saul and Kuby, urging them to find Jesse. Saul suggests that he put a hit on Jesse, but Walt tells Saul that he never wants to hear such ideas again. In their hotel room, Walt tells Skyler that he just to grab some ice, but she was spying on him and knows he was talking to Saul. Walt reluctantly comes clean, telling her that Jesse found out about something that he did and got angry, prompting him to attempt to burn down their house. Skyler is shocked, saying that she knew someone would eventually attack their home. Walt insists that he and Jesse can make peace. To his surprise, Skyler suggests that they kill Jesse to make sure that this doesn't happen again.
Hours earlier, Jesse drives Saul's car onto Walt's driveway. He snorts a line of meth, grabs the gasoline can from the trunk, breaks into the house, and pours gasoline all over the living room. He is about to torch the house when Hank enters the room and points his gun at Jesse, telling him to calm down. Jesse yells that Walt can't keep getting away with the things he has done, mentioning that he poisoned a child as a means to an end. Hank suggests that there is a better way — he and Jesse can work together to take down Walt once and for all. He takes Jesse to his car and they drive off just as Walt parks at the end of the street, missing Hank's departure by mere seconds.
Marie meets with her therapist and admits that she has contemplated poisoning a "family friend" who betrayed their trust and endangered many lives. Perceiving the therapist's alarm, she tells him that she is only fantasizing. Returning home, Marie notices two of luggage bags waiting for her at the entrance; Hank urges her to leave because he is dealing with something she may not like. After asking what's going on, he tells her that he got Jesse to help him and that he's sleeping in the guest bedroom. Learning this is bad for Walt, Marie insists on staying and helping in any way she can. Jesse's cell phone rings inside Hank's pocket, but he doesn't answer. He listens to Walt's voicemail shortly after.
Walt and Walt Jr. hug by the pool
Walt sits by the hotel pool, deep in thought, when Junior joins him and shares his concerns about his father's mortality. Walt stresses that he will survive this bout of cancer and they hug. Junior heads back to his room as Walt decides to leave Jesse another voice message. 
The following morning, Jesse wakes up and is greeted by Marie, who offers to fetch him coffee. He finds Hank and Gomez setting up a camcorder, which they will use to film Jesse's confession. After showing some initial concern about their approach, Jesse tells them everything that went down between him and Walt, from his murder of Gale Boetticher on Walt's orders to Todd's killing of Drew Sharp. Hours later, Hank and Steve stand silent on the balcony, struggling to process the sheer magnitude of Walt's crimes. Gomez believes Jesse, but they need solid proof to convince the sway the rest of the DEA. Plotting their next move, Hank reveals to Jesse and Gomez that Walt left a second voicemail, asking Jesse to meet him in the plaza the following day at noon. Hank asks Jesse to wear a wire so they can get some concrete evidence on Walt's criminal. Jesse asserts that Walt will try to kill him at the meet. Hank tries to reassure Jesse that Walt will not hurt him, but when Jesse's out of earshot, he tells Gomez that he doesn't care if Jesse is killed — he only cares about catching Walt.
Jesse calling Walt from a payphone
The following day, Hank tapes a wire to Jesse and sends leaves him at the plaza; Walt sits nearby on a bench. Jesse approaches him from behind but notices a hulking man staring at him. Jesse flips the script by calling Walt from a payphone, calling off the meeting and promising to get at Walt "where you really live". A furious Hank picks Jesse up, but Jesse tells him he has a better plan. Back at the plaza, Walt gets up from the bench and passes the hulking man, who in the end was not associated with him at all — he was merely a passerby. Now convinced that Jesse is a liability, Walt gets in his car and calls Todd, telling him that he has "another job" for his uncle.
Jack, Kenny and Lydia observe the final stage of Todd's cook at Jack Welker's Compound. Todd measures the meth at 76% purity, but Lydia is unimpressed and complains that the product does not bear the signature color of Blue Sky. Later, Todd brings her tea and says he can get better at cooking with practice. Realizing that Todd is too close to her, Lydia says that she needs to catch a flight. As she walks away, Todd longingly contemplates the lipstick mark she left on the mug. Just then, he receives the phone call from Walt, requesting Jack's services for "another job". Walt divulges the name of the target: Jesse Pinkman.
Gomez listens to Jesse's plan
Hank and Gomez discuss their options after the failed sting. Jesse tells them that they need solid evidence of Walt's criminal activities, but he got rid of all such evidence except one thing: his money. Jesse admits he doesn't know where the money is, but there may be someone who does. At the Schrader residence, Gomez brings a piece of meat and some new information: Huell has been taken into witness protection. Gomez is worried that Huell will contact Saul; if he does, Gomez will have to stop the investigation. Hank drops the meat onto the floor and tells Jesse that he's up.
At the DEA safe house, Hank and Gomez tell Huell that Walt is getting rid of anyone connected to the poisoning of Brock and that Huell himself is next on the hit list. When Huell calls Hank's bluff, he is shown a fake picture of Jesse with his brains blown out. Huell panics and says that he and Kuby collected Walt's money, which was put into seven barrels and left inside a van; after Walt came back, Huell and Kuby cleaned the van and returned it to the rental agency. Hank and Gomez now have information on which van it was and where it was rented. The two agents leave, with Hank giving a warning to Huell not to use his cell phone or to leave the safe house.
Walt contracts Jack and Kenny to kill Jesse, telling them that he regards Jesse as like a member of his family and that he wants Jesse's death to be quick and painless. He offers to pay triple of what he paid for the prison job, but Jack forgoes any monetary payment and instead asks Walt to oversee a few cooks with Todd instead. When Jack refuses to do the hit otherwise, Walt reluctantly accepts to do only one more cook, and only after Jesse is killed. Jack and Walt come to an agreement. Jack asks where he can find Jesse; Walt doesn't know, but knows a way to lure him out.
Walt visits Andrea
Walt pays a visit to Andrea, telling her that he and Jesse got into an argument and that he now can't find him, suggesting that he is using drugs again. Andrea gives Jesse a call and leaves a voicemail asking him to call her back. When Walt returns to his car, he calls Kenny and another member of Jack Welker's Gang, who are staking out Andrea's house, telling them that Jesse may show up soon. He tells them to remove Jesse's body before Andrea or Brock can see it.
Hank, now in possession of Jesse's cell phone, intercepts the call from Andrea; he is aware that Walt is attempting to set a trap for Jesse and deletes the call. Inside his house, Gomez tells Hank that the rental agency did not have GPS trackers on their vans. Jesse urges them not to give up on finding the money. Hank says that it is very possible that Walt buried his money somewhere in the desert, and Gomez immediately says that there is no way they can simply find out where it is buried. Hank comments that they know that the van didn't have GPS tracker — but Walt doesn't.
Skyler and Walt Jr. talking to Saul
At the car wash, Skyler is teaching Walt Jr. how to ring customers up when Saul arrives to have his car serviced. Skyler is quietly furious at Saul's appearance, while Junior is starstruck. Outside, Saul tells Walt that Huell has disappeared, thinking that Jesse killed him; Walt notices that Saul is wearing a bulletproof vest. Having watched the conversation, Skyler asks if they had any "progress" with Jesse. When she returns to the cash register, Walt watches her and his son, afraid for their lives. Moments later, he receives a picture message of a barrel full of money buried in dirt, followed by a taunting phone call from Jesse. He says he's going to burn all of the money if Walt doesn't come to meet him.
Walt rushes to his car and speeds to Tohajiilee Indian Reservation, where he has buried his money. He demands that Jesse not burn it, insisting that it is meant for his children. He further angrily insists that he only poisoned Brock to have Jesse on his side to kill Gus, and states that he committed other murders — Emilio Koyama, Krazy-8, and the rival dealers — to save Jesse as well as himself. Arriving at the reservation, Walt notices that there is no sign of Jesse anywhere around the area where the money is buried; he has been lured into a trap.
Walt spots a vehicle approaching
Walt sees an SUV approaching through the desert. He hides behind a rock and contacts Jack, assuming that Jesse has sent a hit squad to kill him. Jack signals his men to prepare for combat while Walt gives him the GPS coordinates. Walt then realizes that Jesse has come with Hank and Gomez. Not wanting for Hank to be killed, he immediately tells Jack to call off the assault. As Hank calls out for him, Walt stares in silence and sadness, knowing that Jesse betrayed him and ensured his defeat.
Walt calls Jesse a coward
Walt emerges from his hiding spot, gun in hand, while Hank and Gomez command him to surrender. He follows each of their instructions until Hank finally handcuffs him and reads him his rights. Walt sees Jesse and calls him a "coward", to which he responds by spitting in his face; the two try to fight but are separated by the agents. After putting Walt in the SUV, Hank calls Marie to share the news of the arrest and says that while the following weeks are going to be hard for them, it will get better. Marie is overjoyed that Walt has been caught. Hank hangs up.
Inside the SUV, Walt sees Jack's gang arriving in two vehicles. Jack, Kenny, Todd and three other neo-Nazis spill out of the vehicles and draw their weapons; Hank and Gomez draw theirs in response. Jesse takes cover inside Walt's car, while Walt screams at Jack multiple times not to shoot. The agents and the neo-Nazis share a moment of tension before Kenny opens fire, and both parties begin spraying bullets at each other. Hank and Gomez find temporary safety behind the SUV but are badly outnumbered and outgunned. Walt tries to get down as bullets start to rip the SUV apart.


In a flashback to Walt and Jesse's first cook inside the RV at the Tohajiilee Indian Reservation, Walt explains the chemical reactions of the cooking process as they wait for the batch to cool. Jesse brushes him off and nearly lights a cigarette before Walt tells him to do it outside. Stepping away from the cook site, Walt calls Skyler and falsely tells her that Bogdan is keeping him at the car wash. The two contemplate the name "Holly" for their baby before saying their goodbyes. Walt, Jesse, and the RV all fade to the desert setting of To'hajiilee.
Hank's final moments
Twenty months later, at the same location of the first cook, the shootout between Hank, Gomez, and Jack Welker's Gang ends. Gomez dies, while Hank is shot in the leg. Hank tries to crawl towards Gomez's shotgun, but Jack approaches and stops him from doing so. Upon learning that he and Gomez are DEA agents, Jack prepares to execute Hank; Walt, still handcuffed inside the SUV, yells at Jack, telling him not to do it. He is then brought before Jack, he then pleads for Hank's life. Walt reveals that Hank is his brother-in-law, and offers to give Jack his buried $80 million if they let him go. Hank refuses to cooperate, telling Walt that Jack has already made up his mind. Jack kills Hank by shooting him in the head. Walt is horror struck; he drops to his knees and falls to the ground on his side, crying.
Jack acquires assurance from Walt
Now knowing about the buried money, Jack and Kenny trace the GPS coordinates given to them by Walt and soon dig up all of the seven barrels. As he is lying on the ground, Walt notices something beneath his car. The neo-Nazis load the barrels onto the back of their pickup truck and bury Hank and Gomez in the hole where they dug out the barrels from. Todd convinces Jack to leave one of the barrels for Walt as a gesture of apology; Jack orders his men to load the barrel into Walt's car. After Walt's handcuffs are removed, Jack shakes Walt's hands and says that there's no need for hard feelings over what just happened.
Todd insists to question Jesse personally
Walt tells Jack he still owes him a hit on Jesse, revealing that he was hiding under the car during the shooting the whole time. The neo-Nazis drag Jesse out; Jack points his gun at Jesse's head and Walt gives a nod of approval to pull the trigger, but Todd intervenes and suggests they interrogate Jesse about what he told the DEA. Jack promises to kill Jesse once they are done with the interrogation. While Jesse is being forcibly escorted to the truck, Walt reveals that he watched Jane Margolis die without trying to help her. A horror-struck Jesse becomes limp as he is hauled off. Walt sullenly returns to his car as the gang leaves, taking the SUV with them. Walt takes one final look at the place where Hank was buried, and then drives away.
Skyler and Marie discuss Walt's arrest
Driving out of the reservation, Walt's car runs out of gas — a bullet from the shootout has pierced his tank. He decides to roll his one remaining barrel through the desert until he arrives at a Navajo man's house and buys his truck with $10,000.
Meanwhile, at the car wash, Skyler becomes worried by Walt's continued absence and leaves him a voicemail. Marie, unaware of the drastic turn of events, shows up and tells Skyler they need to talk in her office. There, Marie reveals that Hank, working with Gomez and Jesse, arrested Walt and collected enough evidence to put him behind bars. She tells her sister that she still believes there is good in her, and that to redeem herself she must give up all copies of the slanderous video Walt filmed. She also demands that Skyler to come clean to Walt Jr., saying that she will tell him herself if Skyler doesn't.
Jesse is kidnapped by the neo-Nazis
Some time later, a badly beaten Jesse wakes up in the bottom of a concrete cellar at Jack's compound. As Todd drops down a ladder, Jesse pleads that he has told them everything already — that Hank and Gomez were working alone and his video confession is at the Schrader residence. Todd takes Jesse a warehouse, where Jack's gang have set up their meth lab; he is tethered to a hanging wire on a rail to keep him from escaping. Jesse notices a photo on a steel bar on the other end of the lab: it is of Andrea and Brock. Todd reappears, wearing a yellow hazmat suit.
At the car wash, Walt Jr., incredulous at what he is hearing, curses at his mother and aunt and calls them liars. They both stress that what they are telling him is true. Junior tries to call his father and furiously storms out of his mother's office. As Skyler cries, Marie tells her to get her kids home, since it's better for them to regroup as a family at the moment.
Walt tells his family that they need to leave town
Walt arrives home first and runs into the house, frantically packing suitcases for his family. Skyler and Junior find him throwing his bags inside the truck. Walt frantically tells his family to pack, but Junior demands to know the truth about Marie's accusations, while Skyler demands to know how Walt escaped Hank's custody. Walt tries to evade the questions, saying everything will be all right if they trust him. Skyler realizes that Hank is dead and accuses Walt of killing him. Walt denies this, telling her he tried to save him.
Skyler holds a knife against Walt
Skyler grabs a knife from the kitchen, the death of Hank being the last straw. Shielding Junior, she demands that Walt leave the house and never to come back. Walt tries to persuade her to put down the knife, but she slashes at him and cuts his hand when he makes an approach. This triggers a struggle for the knife between husband and wife, with Junior shouting at them to stop. Walt takes the knife from Skyler, but Junior tackles him and shields his mother. Walt screams at them, only to realize that they are now terrified of him. Junior calls 9-1-1. Walt acts quickly, grabbing Holly from her crib and taking off in the truck. Skyler chases them down the street, screaming for Holly as Walt drives away.
Walt, his injured hand wrapped in duct tape, changes Holly in a public restroom. A bloodstained diaper lies on the sink before Walt throws it in the trash. Walt hugs Holly, but she utters one of her first words: "Mama."
Walt makes his phone call to Skyler
Back at the White residence, the place is swarming with police while Skyler, Junior, and Marie are sitting in the living room. The phone rings and goes to voicemail: it's Walt demanding that Skyler pick up. Walt, knowing the police are recording the call, seemingly chastises his wife for being ungrateful and not heeding his warnings. Slowly, Skyler realizes he is deliberately giving her an alibi. When asked about what happened to Hank, Walt struggles to recompose himself, saying that they are "never going to see Hank again"; hearing this, Marie breaks down. Skyler asks Walt to give Holly back. Fighting back tears, he responds that he "still has things left to do" and ends the call. He then leaves Holly at a fire station. Early the next morning, Walt waits on a roadside with his luggage and his barrel of $11 million. When the Disappearer arrives, he packs his belonging into his minivan and is driven away.
Writer Moira Walley-Beckett as an extra

Breaking Bad Ozymandias
The Disappearer's red minivan picks up a passenger and drives to a vacuum repair shop. After the Disappearer, a man named Ed, parks inside the rear garage, Saul steps out. Ed takes a photo of Saul and starts working on his new Nebraska ID, saying that he will have to wait at least two days to be transported out of state. In the meantime, Saul will be staying in a downstairs bunker with another client. Knowing the person is Walt, Saul asks how he is doing. Ed shows him a monitor screen with live footage from the bunker, where an impatient Walt paces around the room.
Jack's gang watch Jesse's confession video
SAC Ramey and two DEA agents drive a distraught Marie home; on the way, he promises that they will find Hank and Gomez. They arrive at the Schrader residence to find that somebody has broken in and ransacked the place. One agent drives Marie away from the house while Ramey and the other agent investigate the premises.
It is revealed that Jack's gang broke into the house to steal Jesse's confession DVD, which is screened that night at their compound. After they laugh over Jesse's often-emotional confession, Kenny fast-forwards to Jesse's disclosure that Todd killed Drew Sharp. Suddenly furious, Jack prepares to kill Jesse, but Todd wants to keep him alive so they can keep cooking meth; Jack realizes that Todd wants to impress Lydia. After teasing his nephew, Jack decides to spare Jesse. Meanwhile, in his cage, Jesse is now in possession of the photo of Andrea and Brock from the lab. Attached to the photo is a paperclip, which he uses to unlock his handcuffs.
Walt attempts to intimidate Saul
In Ed's bunker, Walt plots revenge on Jack's gang, asking Saul for a list of mercenaries. Instead, Saul advises Walt to turn himself in so that Skyler can go free, otherwise the police will pressure her until she gives Walt up — which she can't do since she doesn't know where he is. Ed comes to collect Saul, but Walt insists that Saul is coming with him. Saul refuses, saying that he is now a civilian who will be "managing a Cinnabon in Omaha" if he's lucky. Walt tries to threaten Saul into compliance, similar how he did several months earlier, but suffers a coughing fit and collapses. No longer intimidated, Saul tells Walt it's over and leaves.
Skyler is threatened by Jack's gang
Skyler meets with a U.S. Attorney and members of the DEA, including Ramey, who press her for information on Walt. She tells them she can't help them, as she has no idea where he is. That night, at the White residence, Skyler finds three masked men — Todd and two members of Jack's gang — looming over Holly's crib. With Skyler physically restrained, Todd tells her that they have come to leave a message: to forget about "the black-haired lady at the car wash". After Skyler promises to not say anything, the three men leave the house, leaving Skyler severely shaken. The next day, Lydia and Todd meet back-to-back at a café, debating whether to eliminate Skyler. Lydia wants to call the partnership off, but Todd tells her that, with Jesse cooking for them, they have produced meth with 92% purity as well as the signature blue color. Lydia reconsiders.
Walt collects his money at New Hampshire
Walt is transported inside the back of a propane truck. Arriving in the middle of a snowy, forested area, Ed shows Walt his new home — a small cabin in the New Hampshire wilderness. Ed says he will visit on a monthly basis for grocery runs in exchange for a hefty fee. He further explains that Walt will inevitably be caught if he leaves the property, as his face is all over the news. After he leaves, Walt stuffs his pockets with bundles of cash and prepares to leave. He opens the property's gate, but stops and looks at the long road ahead. "Tomorrow," Walt mutters to himself, returning to the cabin and lighting a fire instead.
Todd kills Andrea
Back at Jack's compound, Jesse uses the paperclip to unlock his restraints and tries to reach the cage bars above his head. Hearing Todd approaching, he quickly puts the cuffs back on and pretends to be resting. Bringing ice cream to celebrate a 96% pure batch, Todd tells him they will cook again in the morning. After he leaves, Jesse escapes the cage and runs to the fences, unknowingly running past a security camera. He is quickly caught by the neo-Nazis. Refusing to cook anymore, Jesse tells the gang to just kill him. Instead, they take Jesse, bound and gagged, to Andrea's house. Posing as a friend of Jesse's, Todd lures Andrea outside and shoots her in the head, killing her. Jesse wails in anguish as Jack reminds him, "Remember, there's still the kid."
Ed performs makeshift chemotherapy for Walt
Months later, Walt greets Ed as he arrives for another supply drop. Now sporting a beard and full head of hair, he picks a new pair of glasses and reads through newspapers from Albuquerque. Ed tells him that Skyler is working as a part-time taxi dispatcher, still has custody of her children, and is using her maiden name. He hooks up a homemade chemotherapy rig, injecting Walt with a drip, then prepares to leave. Out of loneliness, Walt asks him to stay a little longer, offering an extra $10,000 for another two hours. Ed agrees to stay for one, and the two play seven-card stud. Seemingly resigned to his fate, Walt asks if Ed would give the barrel of money to his family when he dies. Ed rhetorically asks if Walt thinks he be trusted with such a task. After Ed departs, Walt wakes up to the sound of his wedding ring falling off his thinning finger. After fashioning it into a necklace, Walt fills a box with $100,000 from the barrel. In the morning, he finally leaves the property and walks to the nearest town.
Walt Jr. receives a call from his dad
At J. P. Wynne High School, Walt Jr. (addressed as "Flynn White") is taken to Principal Carmen's office, where he is told that Marie has made a call. Junior discovers that it is actually Walt on the line, calling from a pub in New Hampshire. Walt asks if Junior's friend Louis still lives at the same address and says that he will mail a package containing $100,000 for Junior to pick up. However, disgusted that Walt is trying to send him drug money, Junior yells at his father and wishes him dead before hanging up. Feeling defeated, Walt calls the DEA field office in Albuquerque and asks to speak with the agent in charge of the Walter White investigation; when asked who is calling, he gives his true name and leaves the phone off the hook so the call can be traced.
Walt's unfinished drink
While Walt is drinking at the bar, something on the television catches his interest: Gretchen and Elliott Schwartz are being interviewed by Charlie Rose, who asks them about their recent donation of $28 million to fund drug rehab clinics throughout the Southwest. Rose asks if the couple made the donation as a PR ploy to deflect from their past association with Walt, who helped them launch Gray Matter Technologies. Both deceptively downplay Walt's contribution to the company. As he watches the interview, Walt becomes increasingly angry. Shortly after, local sheriff's deputies raid the pub with guns drawn. However, Walt is already gone, leaving his unfinished whisky, and a $20 bill left to cover it, sitting on the bar.
In New Hampshire, Walt finds an unlocked car and climbs inside, searching for something to start the engine. In the glove compartment, he finds a screwdriver. He tries to use the screwdriver to start the car but fails after several attempts. The flickering lights of a police car appear. As a flashlight passes over the snow-covered car, Walt quietly pleads, "Just get me home. I'll do the rest." The police car leaves without further inspection, and after a moment of intuition, the car's keys drop from the visor onto Walt's lap. He starts the car and begins his drive back to Albuquerque.
Walt sets a meeting with his former business partners
Somewhere in New Mexico, Walt stops at a gas station. At a payphone, he poses as a journalist from The New York Times and gets Elliott and Gretchen's new address, learning that they are returning home that night from their interview with Charlie Rose. After hanging up, Walt leaves his watch — a birthday gift from Jesse — on top of the phone booth.
That night, Elliott and Gretchen return to their luxurious residence in Tesuque. They are too caught up in conversation to notice Walt sitting in their garden. As the Schwartzes prepare dinner, Walt closes the main door and follows them into the house. Gretchen is startled upon spotting him in their living room. Walt casually greets the couple, telling them that he watched their interview. He asks for their help in unloading "something" from his car. Elliott tries to threaten Walt with a small cheese knife, which Walt scoffs at.
Walt threatens Elliot and Gretchen
Moments later, the three of them finish piling $9.72 million in cash onto a coffee table. Walt instructs the Schwartzes to give the money to Walt Jr. on his 18th birthday, set up as an irrevocable trust fund. He insists that any taxes or legal fees associated with transferring the money be taken out of the stash, and that the Schwartzes not use a single penny of their own money. They reluctantly agree. After shaking hands, Walt turns to the window and signals outside to two "hit men", who train lasers on Elliott and Gretchen. Walt warns them that, regardless of what happens to him, the hit men will come for them if they fail to deliver the money. He signals to the assassins to turn off the lasers, then leaves the house. The couple are left shaken.
Down the street from the Schwartz residence, Walt stops his car and picks up the "hit men": Skinny Pete and Badger. After they hand over the laser pointers and Walt give them their payment, he asks if it's true that Blue Sky is still being manufactured and distributed. They reply in the affirmative, assuming that Walt has been cooking again. Walt determines that Jesse is still alive.
Jesse remains as a meth slave-cook for the Jack's gang
In a dreamlike moment, a younger and happier Jesse is finishing a wooden box for his woodworking class back in high school. He is quickly jolted from the daydream, still a prisoner of Jack Welker's Gang and cooking meth at their compound. Jesse is heavily scarred from months of abuse at the hands of Jack and his men.
The following day — Walt's 52nd birthday — Walt stops by Denny's to purchase the M60 machine gun from Lawson and recovers the ricin from his abandoned house. Before leaving the house, Walt stops in the middle of the empty living room and reminisces about his 50th birthday, when Hank invited him for a DEA ride-along that catalyzed his journey into the meth business.
Walt's discussion with Lydia and Todd
Later, Walt intercepts Lydia and Todd as they meet at the café, telling them he has a new meth formula that doesn't require methylamine. He offers to teach Todd this formula in exchange for $1 million. Lydia reluctantly agrees and tells Walt that he can meet with Jack's gang that evening. Walt leaves the café. As Lydia stirs Stevia into her tea, she insinuates that the best thing to do is to kill Walt, stating they would be doing him a favor considering his condition.
In the desert, Walt's M60 and instruction booklet are laid out as he builds a device with a garage door opener connected to a car battery. He switches on the device remotely with his car lock remote. The contraption starts rotating back and forth and he smiles in approval. He notices his wedding band, hanging from his makeshift necklace, and focuses on his next course of action.
Walt says his farewell to Skyler and Holly
In her cramped apartment, Skyler receives a call from Marie, who tells her that Walt was spotted at the house. Skyler asks if Walt has hurt anyone, but Marie states that nothing has apparently happened until now. Marie tells Skyler that Walt is likely searching for his family, saying the police are coming to watch her house and Junior's school. She tells Skyler to be vigilant and safe, then hangs up.
The camera pans to reveal that Walt has been in the room the entire time; Skyler tells him that he has five minutes. Walt tells her that whatever happens by the end of the day, he wanted to give a proper goodbye. Skyler tells him about the masked men who threatened her, but he replies that, after tonight, they won't bother her anymore. He hands over the lottery ticket and tells her to give to the police, as it bears the GPS coordinates where Hank and Gomez are buried. Walt admits to Skyler his true motive for cooking meth: he did it for his own sake - he liked it, he was good at it, and it made him feel alive. As a final request, he asks to see Holly. Skyler looks on sadly as Walt lovingly caresses his daughter for the last time and leaves the apartment. Later, watching from afar, Walt gets a last glimpse of Junior as he comes home from school.
Walt meets with Jack.
That night, Walt drives to Jack's compound and parks his vehicle parallel to gang's clubhouse, opposite the window. After being frisked, Walt enters the clubhouse and is greeted by Jack. Jack falsely claims that the gang is no longer in the meth business and declines Walt's purported offer. Todd menacingly tells Walt that he shouldn't have come back as Kenny puts a gun to his head. Before they can take him outside and execute him, Walt calls Jack a liar for partnering with Jesse instead of killing him as he was hired to do. Angered by Walt's accusation, Jack orders Todd to bring in Jesse to show Walt what sort of "partner" he really is.
Walt's M60 machine gun, concealed within his trunk, opens fire.
Todd takes a shackled Jesse out of the gang's meth lab. When he is brought into the room, Walt sees just how badly he has been treated. Walt feigns anger and tackles Jesse to the floor, using the car remote control to open the trunk and activate the mounted M60. Oscillating on the garage door opener's motor, the machine gun's fire rips through the clubhouse and kills everyone in the gang except Jack and Todd. An M60 bullet shatters a plastic tab on a billiards scorekeeper, and Walt winces as the plastic shrapnel hits him in his side. After the gun runs out of ammo, Jesse takes the opportunity to strangle Todd with his chains, finally snapping his neck. As Walt approaches an injured Jack, in a desperate attempt to save his life, he tries to offer Walt the location of his money. However, this does nothing, as Walt coldly executes Jack by shooting him in the head mid-sentence, in the exact same way he killed Hank.
Walt asks Jesse to shoot him
Freeing himself from his restraints, Jesse faces Walt. After an intense moment, Walt slides his gun to Jesse and urges him to pull the trigger: "You want this." Jesse refuses unless Walt says that he wants it; Walt obliges. Still unable to bring himself to shoot him, and noticing that Walt has been seriously injured, Jesse drops the gun and tells Walt to do it himself. Hearing a ringtone, Walt retrieves Todd's cell phone and answers: it's Lydia, who has fallen seriously ill and is asking if Walt is dead yet. Walt tells her that Jack's gang are all gone, and that Walt had spiked her Stevia with ricin at the café. Lydia starts to panic as Walt calmly says goodbye. Outside the clubhouse, Jesse and Walt share one last look of mutual respect. Jesse gets in Todd's car and speeds out of the compound to freedom, relieved to be alive and free.
Walt dies in the meth lab
As the police lights approach in the distance, Walt walks into the warehouse and looks at the gang's meth lab. In his final moments, he lovingly caresses the equipment before finally succumbing to his injury and collapsing. The camera slowly pans above Walt, having died content, as the police enter the warehouse and secure the premises.
Series Finale poster
