The episode opens on black and white shots of a backyard. The camera pans over to reveal what appears to be a plastic eyeball in a pool of water. The eyeball is then sucked into the drain of the pool while a pink teddy bear, missing its left eye, floats underwater.
After buying meth from Walt and Jesse at the junkyard, Tuco violently attacks his henchman, No-Doze, for presuming to speak for him. Afterwards, he drives away, leaving Walt and Jesse to ponder the danger of their situation. In Jesse's car, Walt calculates that he needs $737,000 to provide for his family’s future, factoring in medical bills, his children's tuition, mortgage, and other variables—in other words, eleven more meth deals—before he can leave the drug business.
Moments later, Tuco roars back to the junkyard in his SUV, ordering Walt to resuscitate an unconscious No-Doze. Walt is unable to help No-Doze as he dies as a result of the brutal attack. Tuco's other henchman, Gonzo, says they should give his buddy a proper burial, but Tuco orders him to stash the body underneath a stack of old cars. Walt and Jesse begin to leave, but Tuco questions them, to which Walt says they thought they were done. Tuco tells them coldly they are done. The two begin to leave, but Jesse is grabbed by the neck and shoved to the ground. Tuco stares intently at the two as they depart.
Walt returns home, where Skyler is applying an avocado mask. She discovers him aimlessly clicking through television channels, and asks him what he’s doing. He sobs briefly before standing behind her and forcing himself on her, even after she asks him to slow down. Only when she screams "Stop it!" does he let up. Walt rests in the backyard, overlooking the pool. Skyler follows and says that while she understands his situation, he cannot take his anger out on her. As the two talk, Junior returns home and sees the avocado imprint of Skyler's face on the refrigerator.
Jesse purchases a gun at a local fast food joint, the Dog House, telling Walt that he thinks Tuco wants to kill both of them for witnessing No-Doze's murder. Jesse argues for pre-emptively killing Tuco before he kills them. Walt makes Jesse walk through how he would shoot Tuco and his crew, pointing out many problems with his ill-conceived plan. Walt also questions whether Jesse will have it in him. Jesse points out that Walt did, to which he grimly replies, "Yeah."
Marie invites Skyler to dinner, but Skyler doesn't answer the phone. Hank reminds Marie that she has a therapy appointment at the same time she was planning to eat out. Defensive, Marie tells him he’s mistaken and speeds away in her car, intentionally running over an RC toy belonging to a neighbor kid. Hank approaches the distraught kid and apologizes while taking out a money clip of cash from his pocket.
Gomez shows Hank grainy surveillance footage of a recent break-in at a chemical warehouse. Hank, unaware that he's watching Walt and Jesse, laughingly gives them low marks as burglars but concedes that they know their chemistry, correctly deducing that they are using methylamine as part of their cooking process. They note the large amount of meth they will be able to cook and predict they're going to step on some toes. After Walt pulls into his driveway that evening, a suspicious SUV parked down the street eases away.
Skyler notices that Walt has spent the night watching the street outside; he bolts upright when the phone rings. The call is from Marie, but Skyler picks up the receiver and immediately hangs up. Later, Walt confronts Jesse about the other night, and questions him on whether he had given information to Tuco about him. Jesse denies doing so and warns Walt that Tuco is about to make a move. Jesse wants Walt to get his own gun to double their chances of survival, but Walt has another idea: use castor beans to create ricin, a poison they can slip to Tuco.
When Hank visits Skyler, she questions if Marie sent him. He denies it, informing her that Marie is barely talking to him. When he asks Skyler to return Marie's phone calls, she tells him about Marie's shoplifting problem; he is aware of it and claims that Marie is getting help. This angers Skyler, who cites her pregnancy; her absent, cancer-stricken husband; a moody son; an overdrawn checking account and a defective water heater as problems more pressing than those of her "spoiled, kleptomaniac, bitch sister." When she breaks down sobbing, Hank sheepishly hugs her and offers to check out the water heater.
Over at Jesse's house, he and Walt cook up the ricin. Their plan is to offer the ricin to Tuco in a sample of their latest meth formula. Jesse wonders whether Tuco will question their latest meth formula, but Walt says that Tuco will snort anything he gets his hands on. Hank calls Walt from a crime scene to apologize for attempting to reconcile Skyler and Marie. Laughing, he sends Walt a cell-phone picture of both No-Doze and Gonzo, whose bodies have been found at the junkyard. Walt and Jesse stare at the photo in horror.
Walt grabs Jesse's gun to protect his family. Jesse protests, saying he needs it, but Walt orders him to leave town. Jesse grabs a duffel bag full of money and flees, while Walt speeds home. There, he calls out for his family members but gets no response. He draws the gun and begins to search the house. Walt soon finds Skyler relaxing in the tub; she has had the whole house to herself as Junior is visiting his friend Louis for dinner. Skyler asks Walt where he has been, but instead of answering her, he goes to stash his drug money and Jesse's gun in a box of diapers.
Back at the junkyard, police are at the scene inspecting the bodies of No-Doze and Gonzo, whom Hank recognizes. The officers decide to lay the bodies flat, but it is soon apparent that Gonzo wasn't murdered: a car crushed his arms while he was attempting to move No-Doze’s body, and he bled to death from the injury.
Back at his house, Walt starts to answer Skyler's question but is interrupted when he sees Jesse's car out front. Jesse is outside his house. Walt asks Jesse what he's doing there as he approaches Jesse’s car. Then he discovers Tuco is crouched in the back seat with a handgun. Tuco orders Walt to get in. After he reluctantly does so, Jesse's car rolls off silently down the street.
When Hank calls Walt during a crime scene and sends him a picture, there is afternoon light coming through the windows in Walt and Jesse's shots, but it's night time where Hank Schrader is working at.
Out in the desert, Jesse's car is riddled with bullet holes and bounces wildly on its hydraulic suspension system, shedding glass fragments from its rear windshield. Spent casings and drops of blood litter the ground. A body lies behind the car, half hidden from view.
After briefing his DEA team about a raid on Tuco's hideout, Hank tells Gomez he's taking personal leave to search for Walt, who has gone missing. At the White residence, Sgt. Tim Roberts questions Skyler about the events leading up to Walt's disappearance. She says that he was agitated about something, but that he didn't explain what it was. Skyler and Marie distribute "Missing" posters of Walt. Marie tries to use the occasion to try to explain the tiara situation, but Skyler cuts her off. Meanwhile, in the desert, Tuco releases Jesse and Walt from the trunk of Jesse's car.
Tuco takes Walt and Jesse to a remote, run-down shack in the desert where his ailing uncle, referred to as Tio, lives. Tuco orders Walt and Jesse to empty their pockets. Among Walt's belongings is the ricin-laced meth and his wallet, which reveals his true identity to Tuco.
Tuco grabs Walt by the neck and asks if he can trust him. After railing about his suspicions that Gonzo snitched to the DEA, Tuco says he wants to get high. Jesse tries to convince him to sample the poisoned meth, but Tuco balks at its "head cheese" smell. Jesse tries to improvise by describing the high Tuco could achieve, but Tuco refrains from tasting it when Jesse says it contains chili powder. Tuco instead opts for the "blue magic" he previously purchased at the junkyard, claiming he hates the spice.
One snort gets Tuco so ripped he wants to shoot Jesse, but Walt intervenes. Tuco then announces that has cousins from Mexico who are coming to smuggle him and Walt out of the country, with Walt being forced to cook meth for them 24/7 in a superlab. As for Jesse, he'd better hope there's room in the trunk for him.
At the White residence, Marie tells Skyler that she suspects Walt has a second cell phone which he used it to contact Jesse, who Skyler believes is his pot dealer. Hank thinks she is grasping at straws, but Marie insists Hank should question him. Hank instead visits Jesse's mother, who tells him the type of car Jesse drives. Hank calls Gomez to find out if Jesse installed a car-tracking system, and, if so, to try to get a fix on the vehicle's location.
Back at Tio's shack, Tuco prepares to cook burritos while Gonzo and No-Doze's deaths are covered on the local news. Walt changes the channel, afraid that Tuco will suspect him and Jesse of ratting him out should he learn that Gonzo is dead and not a DEA informant. Jesse suggests Walt sacrifice himself and attack Tuco before he learns of Gonzo's fate. Walt proposes instead that they slip Tuco the ricin in his food. However, Tio catches Walt trying to lace Tuco's burrito and repeatedly rings a bell attached to his wheelchair to warn his nephew. Tuco misreads Tio's warnings as a request to trade burritos, but when he gives his uncle the poisoned burrito, Tio knocks the plate to the floor. Shaking, Tio points a finger at Walt.
After the meal, Tio continues to ring his bell until Tuco realizes that his uncle is trying to warn him about Walt and Jesse. Tuco becomes enraged and drags Jesse outside, holding a gun to his head. Tuco forces Walt to admit that he tried to poison him, but Walt then states that Tuco is an "insane, degenerate piece of filth" who deserves to die. Tuco, further enraged by Walt's remark, takes his eyes off Jesse, allowing him to grab a rock and strike Tuco across the head. During the ensuing struggle, Walt grabs Tuco's assault rifle and Jesse his pistol, shooting Tuco in his side. They kick him into a ditch and leave him to die.
The two rush to Jesse's car, but quickly realize they don't have the keys. They see a vehicle approaching in the distance and assume that Tuco's cousins are approaching. Realizing that the keys are still in the shack, Walt and Jesse abandon the car and take cover nearby, leaving the rifle behind. Meanwhile Tuco, despite being critically wounded, manages to crawl out of the ditch and staggers over to the car just as the vehicle that Walt and Jesse spotted—Hank's Jeep Commander—pulls up to the shack.
Having tracked Jesse's car to this location, Hank climbs out of the Jeep and momentarily thinks that Tuco is Jesse. He is alarmed when Tuco turns to face him. Both men stare at each other for several tense seconds. The tension is broken when Tuco suddenly reaches into the car and grabs the rifle, resulting in a shootout. Tuco and Hank fire at each other until their guns are empty. Hank is quicker to reload and, the moment Tuco stands up, Hank fires a shot into Tuco's forehead, killing him instantly. Hank then emerges from cover and advances over to Tuco's body, not knowing that Walt and Jesse are watching him from nearby. The two flee on foot unnoticed by Hank, whose attention is drawn to the sound of Tio's bell ringing repeatedly inside the shack.

After burying Tuco's gun in the desert, Walt and Jesse hatch a plan to explain away their days of absence. After splitting up with Jesse, Walt hitches a ride back to civilization in a pickup truck. Shortly, in a supermarket, a clerk follows a trail of clothes littering the floor to find Walt, seemingly weak and confused, walking naked down an aisle.
Walt is taken to a hospital in Albuquerque, where he joins Skyler and Junior in a tearful reunion. Walt claims that he can't remember the last couple of days, but says that he feels fine now. Skyler steps outside to make a phone call to Marie, who is with Hank as he is delivering an official statement to his DEA superiors, ASAC George Merkert and SAC Ramey, about the shooting with Tuco. Notably, he lies about having asked Tuco to show his hands.
Jesse, who has also returned to Albuquerque, sits in a car with Badger, watching as Albuquerque police officers are staking out Jesse's house. After the cops leave, Jesse and Badger are able to enter the property. Badger is excited when he sees the meth-cooking setup in Jesse's basement, but Jesse says they can't cook anything now. They toss the supplies into the RV, which Badger's cousin, Clovis, tows away with his truck—for a $1,000 fee which Jesse can only pay half of but promises to settle later. Jesse instructs Badger to make a call from a payphone.
Dr. Soper and Dr. Delcavoli quiz Walt about his experience, but Walt says he can't remember much of anything. Walt suggests that his disappearance and memory loss could have something to do with all his medications. He's informed that no matter the cause, he won't be released until the doctors are confident it won't recur. Meanwhile, based on the tip received from Badger, Hank's DEA team raids a motel room at "The Crystal Palace" that Jesse is sharing with Wendy.
Hank interrogates Jesse, who insists he was partying at the motel all weekend even though his car was found at the shack and denies that the $67,920 recovered from the vehicle is his. Hank tries to intimidate Jesse, saying he knows he was at Tuco's shack, but Jesse sticks to his story. Hank then turns his attention to Wendy who, remembering her previous encounter with him at the Crystal Palace, vouches for Jesse's story. Gomez says they have to let Jesse go because there's nothing solid to charge him with, but Hank wants one more shot at cracking him.
At the hospital, a psychiatrist tells Walt it could be days, weeks, or months before he is released. Walt confesses under doctor-patient confidentiality that he made up his story of having amnesia in order to cover for taking a few days off from the demands of his family.
Hank brings in Tio—real name Hector Salamanca—hoping to get him to identify Jesse. Despite being seemingly invalid, Hector does indeed remember Jesse, but follows what Gomez calls an "old school gangbang Mexican" code by refusing to rat on him. After Hank asks for Hector's help, he replies by defecating in his wheelchair. The DEA is forced to release Jesse without charge. Upon being released, Jesse calls his father for a lift, but his father refuses to help him. Jesse then calls Walt at the hospital and they bring one another up to speed. Walt asks Jesse if Clovis can get the RV working so they can start cooking again. When Jesse balks at the idea of cooking again, Walt asks, "What's changed?"
While analyzing his finances, Walt remembers stashing his drug money and Jesse's gun in a diaper box at his house. He sneaks out of the hospital and into the house in order to return them to his hiding place in the vent. Unseen, he witnesses Skyler and Junior share a close moment over a bowl of cereal then rides a bus back to the hospital.
At the DEA field office, Hank reviews footage of the methylamine heist and theorizes that the thieves cooked the blue meth recovered at Tuco's house. "Lab said that blue meth is the purest they've seen. At least since this," he adds, holding up the batch Walt made for Krazy-8. Hank's colleagues throw him a party to congratulate him for shooting Tuco and hand him a small gift. At the hospital, Hank shows Walt the gift: Tuco's glittering dental grill, set inside a lucite cube. Walt apologizes for putting Hank at risk, but he tells Walt not to worry—he's being treated like Eliot Ness at the office.
Walt says he feels good enough that he is allowed to return home. In bed that night, he assures Skyler that he won't go missing again. Skyler asks Walt if he has a second cell phone. Walt says he doesn't remember much about the weekend but claims that he doesn't. Walt leans in to kiss Skyler, but she turns away.
When an IV is inserted, the needle is removed and only a plastic catheter remains. Walt would not have a needle left in his hand and would therefore be unable to reestablish IV access without new equipment. Also, the angle he inserted the needle would have pierced completely through the vein and the IV fluids would not flow through the tubing.
Continuing the eerie scene first depicted in the season premiere, the charred pink teddy bear is retrieved from the pool by a figure in a hazmat suit. Placed into an evidence bag, the teddy bear is laid on the ground next to other collected objects, also wrapped in evidence bags, carefully organized along the side of the pool. The line of random objects ends with a pair of eyeglasses which appear to belong to Walt.
A broke Jesse meets Walt on the sly at a convenience store, asking for half of the remaining drug money. Walt argues that he shouldn't have to suffer for Jesse's carelessness, but does give him $600. The next morning, Walt prepares breakfast for Skyler and Junior. Attempting to explain away Skyler's suspicions about his second cell phone, Walt tells her she might have mistaken his phone's alarm — a reminder to take his medication — for an incoming call. When his back is turned, Walt doesn't notice Skyler slip out of the house.
Jesse's parents summon him to a meeting with their lawyer, Mr. Gardiner, and is told he has 72 hours to vacate his house, which formerly belonged to his aunt. When his mother tells Jesse about Hank's visit, he spins the story by claiming he works for the DEA. Jesse's mother calls him on this lie, telling him that she has already seen the meth lab in his basement. Mr. Gardiner explains that under federal law, the government is allowed to seize the entire house; Jesse has no choice but to move out.
When Skyler returns home, Walt asks where she's been, and her response is simply "out". Attempting to bridge the distance, Walt says that he's thinking of rejoining his cancer support group. Skyler's reaction to this is equally curt.
At Jesse's house, his mother enters his bedroom and wakes her sleeping son. Scurrying to hide his drug paraphernalia, Jesse pleads for another chance — but movers are already carting away his furniture. Jesse insists that the house is his, claiming he earned it helping his dying aunt after his mother abandoned her. Provoked, Jesse's mother slaps him, then says that she just wants him to turn his life around.
Meanwhile, Walt makes omelets, but Skyler and Junior pass on breakfast. As she leaves, again without explanation, Jesse makes the first of three increasingly frantic phone calls to Walt, but he isn't interested in the specifics. Walt then warns Jesse not to make contact under any circumstances.
Jesse meets with Paul — a settled-down and cleaned-up friend from high school — and they reminisce about their old garage band, TwaüghtHammër. However, Paul's wife comes home and tells Paul to kick Jesse out. Later, outside the convenience store, Jesse is on a payphone desperately looking for a place to stay. Jesse turns to find that his motorcycle — along with his few remaining possessions — has been stolen. That night, Jesse heads to the repair yard where Clovis is storing the RV. After scaling the fence, he tries to stand on the roof of a portable toilet, but the roof collapses and Jesse falls through. Blue disinfectant pours out of the toilet and Jesse emerges soaked in human waste. Gagging from his own stench, Jesse staggers into the RV, dons a gas mask, and cries himself to sleep.
The next morning, Skyler leaves the house again without word. Walt suggests that he and Junior do something "fun," and takes him for a driving lesson in the Aztek. However, the lesson ends abruptly when Walt won't let Junior use both feet to work the pedals, a technique to compensate for his disability, and he loses control of the car.
Meanwhile, at the repair yard, Clovis follows the trail of blue sludge from the busted toilet to the RV, and pulls a shotgun on a sleeping Jesse. When Jesse can't pay the towing and repair charges, Clovis threatens to sell the RV's contents and kicks him off the lot. While Clovis is on the phone making a deal to sell the cookware, Jesse sneaks back onto the lot and drives the RV through the locked gate.
At the White residence, Walt apologizes to Skyler for everything and, worried that she's questioning his fidelity, tries to reassure her that he's not having an affair. Skyler then tells him to say something that isn't "complete bullshit". When Walt claims not to know what she wants him to tell her, she leaves.
Walt follows Skyler onto the driveway and sees her drive off in her SUV before noticing the RV parked down the street. Entering the RV, Walt angrily berates at Jesse for showing up at his house, calling him a pathetic junkie and refusing to give him any more money. Jesse eventually snaps and throws Walt against a wall. Jesse quickly gains the upper hand, crouching on top of Walt with one hand around his throat and a fist poised to pound him. However, when Walt tells him to finish the job and kill him, Jesse relents. Back inside his house, Walt splits up his money nearly 50-50 with Jesse, keeping an extra stack of bills for himself.
Meanwhile, Skyler parks outside of the convenience store and begins to light a cigarette despite being pregnant, glaring when a woman parked next to her shakes her head. After pausing a moment, Skyler lights up and takes a long drag.
Two border-hoppers hurriedly swim across the Rio Grande. Once ashore, one of them stumbles in the mud and turns to find he's tripped over a dental grill encased in a Lucite cube: Hank's souvenir from his encounter with Tuco.
Following a chemotherapy session, Dr. Delcavoli advises that Walt be cautiously optimistic about his chances. However, Walt's optimism quickly fades when he sees the final bill for the treatment.
At the White residence, Skyler tells Walt that the three-day hospital stay following his "fugue state" will cost an additional $13,000, and asks—under the impression that Elliott and Gretchen Schwartz are paying for his treatment—can cover this expense as well. Walt tells Skyler they will and promises to handle it. That night, Walt counts his drug money, realizing that after everything he's been through he has almost nothing. Later, Walt retches into the toilet and finds it clogged when he tries to flush. When he uses a plunger, a pack of Skyler's cigarettes floats to the surface.
The next day, Hank tells his boss, ASAC George Merkert, that so far no one has filled the power vacuum in the local drug trade caused by Tuco's death. However, DEA agents keep hearing the name "Heisenberg" on the street. Praising Hank for his abilities as an investigator, Merkert offers him a promotion to the Tri-State Border Interdiction Task Force in El Paso, Texas, which will require him to split his time between there and Albuquerque. On the elevator down to a congratulatory lunch, Hank suffers a panic attack and struggles to breathe.
At the repair yard, Clovis confronts Jesse over his theft of the RV. Jesse pays him for services rendered and for the damages to his fence and toilet, then makes a deal to stash the RV at the repair yard and buy a used 1986 Toyota Tercel. Searching for an apartment, Jesse finds a small duplex managed by a young woman named Jane Margolis. Jane asks Jesse to provide proof of employment and a former address to rent the vacant unit, but cuts him a break when he tells her about his parents kicking him out of his house. Jane raises the rent, though, and demands more money up front.
Meanwhile, Marie expresses dismay when she discovers Hank has called in sick the day after his promotion so he can brew "Schraderbräu" beer in his garage. While he's capping bottles of beer, one shatters and cuts his hand.
In the desert, Walt and Jesse cook meth and argue about their partnership. Walt wants Jesse to sell small quantities again to avoid dealing with another distributor like Tuco. Jesse protests, saying the DEA is onto him. Jesse asserts he has bills that need paying, which angers Walt because his monetary returns have already been sapped by his medical bills. Instead of going into business with "yet another homicidal lunatic" or selling small quantities, Jesse proposes a third option: they control production and distribution themselves. Jesse offers to bring guys in who can handle the street end of the business, but Walt is not comfortable bringing unknown entities into their operation. When Walt balks at being denied a say in the decision, Jesse chastises him for altering their original plan by getting Tuco involved. Realizing Jesse is right, Walt takes responsibility for the situation with Tuco and promises that will never happen again. Jesse tells Walt that they will be handling business his way from now on or he walks.
Setting out pretzels and soda in his new apartment, Jesse presents a business opportunity to Skinny Pete, Badger, and Combo. He'll front them each an ounce of meth at a time, and they in turn sell the product for $2,500, $2,000 of which goes to Jesse.
Walt's family visits Hank and Marie. Alone with her sister, Skyler demands she apologize — "now or never" — for stealing the baby tiara and nearly getting Skyler arrested. Marie resists at first, but tearfully apologizes when Skyler says she needs her sister back. Elsewhere, Walt listens as Hank regales Junior with the story of his confrontation with Tuco, comparing criminals to cockroaches. Meanwhile, Badger, Combo, and Skinny Pete sell Jesse's meth all over town. Everything goes fine until Skinny Pete is held up by a pair of junkies who make off with an ounce of meth.
Discussing the meth theft with Walt, Jesse argues that they need to accept a little "breakage" as the cost of doing business. Meanwhile, back at the White residence, Walt shows Skyler the crumpled cigarette package he retrieved from the toilet, and accusingly asks if she knows anything about it. Skyler later admits to having smoked three-and-a-half cigarettes before disposing of the pack and says that of course she feels ashamed. Walt says it's unlike her, but Skyler dismisses this, asking, "How would you know?".
That night, Hank and Marie are awakened to loud gunshot-like pops coming from inside the house. Gun drawn, Hank heads into the garage, visibly shaken, only to find that it's just the sound of his Schraderbräu bottles exploding due to pressure.
Walt shows up at Jesse's apartment, handing over the gun Jesse bought to defend himself against Tuco. Walt tells him to "handle" the meth thieves. Meanwhile, Hank stands on the bank of the Rio Grande, takes a deep breath, and heaves Tuco's grill into the water.
In the scene where Jesse discusses the new business arrangement with Skinny Pete, Badger and Combo there is a slight continuity error. Combo takes the cap off the soda and as the camera cuts to behind Combo the lid is back on the soda. It then cuts back to in front of him and the lid is off. Then the camera cuts again and we see Combo take the lid off again.
As he waits alone on a sidewalk, Jesse crouches down and cautiously examines a large beetle as it wanders the pavement. Skinny Pete approaches, notices the same beetle and immediately crushes it underfoot. Skinny Pete, oblivious at Jesse's disappointment at killing the beetle, hands him the name and address of the junkies that robbed him—a man named Spooge and his unnamed female accomplice.
Outside Spooge's house, Jesse draws his pistol and tries to psych himself up. When a mailwoman pulls up, Jesse quickly hides his gun and engages in brief yet awkward small talk before she goes on her way. Spooge and his woman are absent from the house, so Jesse breaks in and enters the dank living room littered with garbage, ripped-up furniture and dirty laundry. As he waits on the couch, Jesse finds himself joined by an unkempt, half-dressed five-year-old boy. Turning on a television to a home shopping channel — the only station it gets — the child sits on the other end of the couch and tells Jesse he is hungry.
Skyler calls Gretchen to offer her a belated thanks for paying Walt's medical bills. A confused Gretchen starts to respond but can't find the words. When Skyler says that they should get together sometime, Gretchen proposes a visit that afternoon. Meanwhile, Walt returns to his teaching job. The school's assistant principal, Carmen Molina, sits in on his lecture, telling him afterwards that he should come to her if he ever has any "issues." At the end of the day, Walt heads to his car with Junior, where he finds one of his "Missing" posters stuck on the windshield. A student has defaced the poster so it now reads, "I'm MISSING My Pants!"
Back at Spooge's house, Jesse scratches up a sandwich and plays peekaboo with the little boy while he eats. The two addicts — grimy, bloodied, and arguing with each other — finally return home. Jesse carries the boy into a bedroom and then attacks the couple, pistol-whipping Spooge.
Walt arrives home to find Gretchen's Bentley parked in the driveway. Entering the living room, Walt finds his family thanking Gretchen for her generosity. Walt follows Gretchen to the driveway and asks her not to say or do anything until they have a chance to talk. Gretchen drives away without a word, clearly displeased with Walt's involving her in a lie.
Jesse gets the junkies to hand over a little of his stolen meth, but no cash. Just as he threatens to shoot them in the kneecaps, the little boy walks into the living room. Spooge's woman embraces her son, using him a shield, making it impossible for Jesse to do anything while he's in the room. Spooge tells him that they have his money, but that it's inside an ATM machine they have stolen from a convenience store. Spooge claims the theft was a "victimless crime" that "went smooth as silk." However, a flashback shows it resulted in the death of the clerk and a bag of Walt and Jesse's meth being left at the scene.
Spooge tries unsuccessfully to force the ATM open by pounding away at the machine with a sledgehammer, calling his girlfriend a "skank" when she questions his competence. Jesse notices that the little boy is missing, and takes the opportunity to chastise her over how she is raising him. Spooge's wife mouths off, outraged that Jesse dared accuse her of being a bad mother. The boy reappears and encourages Jesse to play peekaboo again. Jesse relents and, while his eyes are covered, Spooge's wife knocks him out from behind with a bottle.
Walt meets Gretchen at a fancy restaurant and pleads for time to "clear this up." When Gretchen asks why he lied to Skyler and questions how he is paying for his cancer treatment, Walt defiantly says that he owes her an apology but not an explanation. Walt then angrily accuses her and Elliott of making millions off his research, causing her to remind him that he was the one who left her without explanation. When Gretchen tells Walt that she feels sorry for him, Walt gives her a short response: "Fuck you." Gretchen gets up and leaves the restaurant.
When Walt returns home, a distraught Skyler tells him that Gretchen has called to say she and Elliott can't pay his medical bills anymore. Walt admits he drove to meet Gretchen and lies that he deduced from their chat that she and Elliott are broke. Skyler finds it odd that they're still driving fancy cars if that's indeed the case. Walter states it's just for show, to keep up appearances.
At Spooge's house, Jesse comes to and finds Spooge's wife aiming his own gun at him while Spooge rifles through Jesse's pockets. Later, Spooge leans the ATM against a chair and positioned himself underneath to drill into its base. Spooge once again argues with his woman and calls her a skank, in response, she pushes the ATM upright, crushing Spooge's head. Nonplussed, Spooge's wife grabs some dope off his body, crosses the room, and passes out on the couch. A shocked and panicked Jesse retrieves his gun from the body and begins wiping his fingerprints from around the house and off the ATM. As he does so, its door suddenly swings open and cash spills out.
Jesse grabs a wad of cash and calls 911. Telling the boy to close his eyes like they're playing peekaboo, Jesse carries him outside past Spooge's body. He sits him on the front steps, wraps a blanket around him, and tells him, "Just don’t go back inside, ok?" He assures him someone's coming for him soon. "You have a good rest of your life, kid," Jesse adds, slipping away while the sound of approaching sirens grows louder.
A narcocorrido band called Los Cuates de Sinaloa performs "Negro y Azul" (Black and Blue), in which "a gringo boss" named Heisenberg disrespects Mexican drug cartel by cornering the Albuquerque market with high-quality blue meth.
Walt heads to Jesse's apartment after repeatedly trying to reach him by phone. Pounding on the front door, Walt attracts the attention of Jesse's landlord, Jane, who refuses to grant him access even after he claims to be Jesse's father. Jesse finally appears at the door, and tells Walt to come in.
Inside, Walt scolds Jesse for holing up in his apartment and getting high. After learning that one of the junkies who ripped off Skinny Pete is dead, Walt says that he didn't want anybody to get killed. Jesse tells Walt that he couldn't stop Spooge's girlfriend from crushing his head with the ATM machine because she'd stolen his gun. Jesse can't stomach witnessing the gruesome murder, and is relying on pot to cope.
At his new office in El Paso, Hank mocks the idea of drug dealers praying to their patron saint, Jesús Malverde, and is the only one laughing at his own joke. When he asks his colleague Vanco why the saint's statue sits on his desk, the agent quotes Sun Tzu's The Art of War in saying that it's to help him know his enemy.
Jesse is due to make an exchange with Skinny Pete, Badger, and Combo, but is still distraught and refuses to leave his apartment. Walt goes in his place, meets the three at the National Museum of Nuclear Science & History, introducing himself as "Heisenberg." Handing over the latest haul, Skinny Pete tells Walt that because rumor has it that Jesse murdered Spooge, everyone is now afraid of him. Walt doesn't let on that the rumor isn't exactly true.
Skyler applies for a data-entry job at Beneke Fabricators, her old employer. When the receptionist gives her the brush-off, Skyler bolts past her to chat with the owner, her former boss Ted Beneke. After catching up, Ted offers Skyler her old bookkeeping position. Later, Marie alludes to a past incident of sexual harassment between Skyler and Ted. Skyler tells Marie that the drunken incident happened once and won't happen again.
Back at Jesse's apartment, Walt says that they should expand their territory to take advantage of Jesse's newfound street cred, comparing Jesse to a blowfish: the blowfish is small, but it scares off more formidable predators by puffing itself up to appear large and intimidating. Skeptical at first, Jesse eventually gets on board: "I'm a blowfish, yeah!" Meanwhile, in El Paso, Hank becomes irritated by his colleagues' strategy of kowtowing to Tortuga, a high-level drug informant that they're interviewing. Tortuga explains to Hank that he got his name (Spanish for turtle) because, "I take my time, but I always win."
Jesse leaves his apartment for the first time in days. Outside, Jane sketches a tattoo design, which Jesse admires. While Jesse chats with Jane, a biker rolls by and loudly addresses him as "Pinkman". Jane notes his last name, as he didn't use his real one when he began renting his apartment.
Meanwhile, on a stakeout in Mexico, Hank overhears as fellow agents mock him in Spanish. One agent, who says Hank's promotion was about politics, falsely reassures him that they're just singing his praises. Hank thinks he spots Tortuga in the distance on one of the hills.
The DEA El Paso team pile into their vehicles and drive down into the valley, only to discover a gruesome sight: Tortuga's severed head has been mounted on a live tortoise, with "HOLA DEA" painted on its shell. To his colleagues' amusement, Hank edges away in disgust. Seconds later, one of the Spanish-speaking officers tries to lift the head off of the tortoise, setting off a hidden explosive device. The blast kills the tortoise and the agent, and wounds three other men; one of them, Vanco, his right leg is blown off below the knee. A still-woozy Hank totters over to Vanco and uses his belt as a tourniquet.
At the museum, Jesse meets with Badger, Combo, and Skinny Pete and tells them that they need to recruit more dealers into a layered command structure. Even with the new system, however, Walt tells Jesse that they are still not charging enough, saying after they've cornered the market they need to raise the price. Meanwhile, at Beneke Fabricators, Ted tells Skyler that he has split up from his wife and suggests that they go out to lunch some time.
At the duplex, Jesse is smoking on his back porch while Jane does the same on hers. He admits that his name is Pinkman and that Walt isn't really his father. Jane says that she doesn't care what his business is, as long as he doesn't do it at the duplex. Jesse invites Jane over to see his new flat-screen television. The two sit in folding lawn chairs waiting for the satellite dish to acquire a signal. Jesse squirms impatiently until Jane reaches over and holds his hand.
Badger is sitting at a bus stop when a thin guy named Getz sits next to him and asks if he is selling. Badger almost immediately laughs the customer off, convinced that he is an undercover cop. The customer lifts his shirt to show that he's not wearing a wire as Badger suspects, and almost starts to walk away before Badger apologizes. Still, Badger explains that he can't sell to the guy, because there's no way to be sure that he isn't a cop. The customer explains that a cop can't deny that he's a cop if asked directly. Delighted, Badger asks him if he's a cop. When the customer says "no", the two make a deal for some blue meth. A split second later, the customer pulls out a gun and badge, arresting Badger on the spot.
Having had sex the previous night, Jesse and Jane lay together in his apartment. However, Jane abruptly leaps up when he suggests they smoke marijuana, explaining that she is a recovering drug addict who has been clean for eighteen months.
Marie tells Walt that she's worried about Hank, who has holed himself up in his bedroom since the incident with Tortuga. When Walt visits him, Hank admits that he was taken off guard by the war-like atmosphere in El Paso, but says that seeing a shrink about it would kill his career. Walt suggests that Hank could talk to him about it, explaining how his cancer diagnosis helped him conquer his fear of everyday life.
At Jesse's apartment, he and Walt split up $90,000. Walt, expecting more, asks Jesse about the missing money. Jesse explains that Badger hasn't put in his full amount. When Jesse calls Combo to ask for Badger's whereabouts, he learns that his friends were too intimidated to inform Jesse of Badger's arrest.
Pulling himself together, Hank returns to the DEA field office in Albuquerque and is greeted with applause by his colleagues. Gomez informs Hank that Badger was picked up with the blue meth that Hank is so interested in. The two decide to head to the police station to join the APD in questioning Badger.
Detective Getz, the undercover cop who busted Badger, tries to convince him to give up his supplier. Before Badger can respond, Saul Goodman, a flamboyant criminal defense attorney, enters the interview room and dismisses Getz before looking over Badger's case and discussing his retainer fee. When he spots Hank and Gomez, Saul becomes convinced that the DEA must be interested in Badger only if they think he can lead them to bigger fish. Jesse takes Walt to Saul's law office at a strip mall, explaining to a hesitant Walt that they do not need a criminal lawyer (a lawyer who defends criminals), but a criminal lawyer (a lawyer who is also a criminal).
Walt loses a coin toss to determine who will go into Saul's office and pay his retainer fee. Upon entering the office, Walt introduces himself as Badger's uncle, "Mr. Mayhew". Saul reports that the DEA wants Badger to lead them to a mystery man named Heisenberg. Saul initially insists on making Badger give up Heisenberg, but seems to reconsider when Walt offers him $10,000. Walt has another coughing fit. Upon returning to Jesse's car, Walt reports that Saul kicked him out of the office for trying to bribe him.
After nightfall, Walt and Jesse, donning ski masks, kidnap Saul as he leaves his office and haul him in the RV to a freshly dug shallow grave. Aiming a gun at Saul, Jesse instructs him to represent Badger and threatens to kill him if anyone snitches to the DEA. While Jesse and Walt have Saul on his knees in the desert, Saul utters "It wasn't me. It was Ignacio!" and he is relieved that "Lalo" didn't send them. Walt doubles over coughing, prompting Saul to recognize him. Saul instructs Walt and Jesse to remove their masks and each put a dollar in his pocket, thereby making their conversation protected by attorney-client privilege. The duo hear Saul's assessment of their situation: "Somebody’s going to prison. It's just a matter of who."
Under questioning from Hank, Badger describes Heisenberg as a middle-aged bald man. Meanwhile, Saul hands Walt the dossier for James Kilkelly, a bald ex-convict known as "Jimmy In-'N-Out," who will willingly allow himself to be put in jail as Heisenberg for a fee. Saul outlines the cost: $80,000 plus a pound of Walt and Jesse's meth.
The next day, the DEA and APD stake out the bus stop. Walt and Jesse watch from a distance in Walt's Aztek. Badger arrives on time, but Jimmy is late. Eventually a different bald man sits next to Badger, who doesn't know this isn't Jimmy. When the real Jimmy sits down on a nearby bench, Badger is busy soliciting the wrong man, trying to make the deal. Walt speeds around the block to the bench and makes Jesse intervene. After Jesse exits the car, Walt zips over to the stakeout vehicle to talk to Hank, thereby blocking their view and buy time for Jesse to redirect Badger. Jesse directs Badger to the correct bench and Jimmy's arrest goes down as planned. Later, Jane drops by Jesse's apartment and they make love.
Saul visits Walt's high school and walks into his classroom, chiding him for being easy for his PI to locate. Walt asks if Saul is blackmailing him, but Saul says that he isn't. Referencing The Godfather, Saul offers to act as Walt's consigliere in his meth operation, providing him with the right connections and strategy to succeed in the drug trade, ending the conversation with "If you want to make more money, and keep the money that you make, Better Call Saul!"
Walt undergoes tests to see if his cancer treatment has reduced the size of his tumor. Dr. Delcavoli won't share the results for another four days, but upon briefly glimpsing the scan’s image, Walt notices a large white spot on top of his lung.
Saul gives Walt a tutorial on money laundering. After all the costs associated with Badger’s arrest, Walt has $16,000 left, of which he would receive only $9,960. Walt lets on that he might not have much longer to live, but intends to cook a lot more. Elsewhere, Skyler suggests a weekend outing to take the family's mind off the test results, but Walt says that he wants to visit his mother to ensure she'll leave money to Skyler if he dies.
Jesse makes plans with Jane to visit the Georgia O'Keeffe Museum in Santa Fe, but Walt derails the getaway when he tells Jesse that they need to cook non-stop until Tuesday. When Jesse balks, Walt tells him that their methylamine is losing its chemical potency.
Skyler drops Walt off at the airport and drives away. After a moment, Walt exits the airport and Jesse pulls up in the RV to take Walt to their cook session. They drive deep into the desert and prepare for a long cook. When Walt scolds Jesse for tossing the RV's keys on their workspace, Jesse leaves the keys in the ignition. Unbeknownst to the duo, an indicator lamp on the dashboard lights up.
Walt and Jesse are ecstatic when two days of cooking yields 42 pounds of meth, which will net them $672,000 each. However, their celebration is cut short when they realize that their generator has run out of gas, Jesse is concerned, but Walt insists that they keep cooking until they've exhausted the methylamine.
Jesse suggests they break for the night: a trip to Denny's, a hot shower, and a bed instead of a cot are too good to pass up, he argues. Walt finally agrees, but they discover that because Jesse left the keys in the ignition, the dashboard indicator lamp has completely drained the RV's battery. Walt fumes at Jesse now that they are now stranded in the desert.
Walt siphons some diesel from the RV, intending to use the generator to jump-start the battery. Some of the fuel spills over the generator. Walt connects the jumper cables incorrectly ("red to red, black to black"), causing a short-circuit, and the subsequent spark sets the generator ablaze. Just as Walt arrives with a fire extinguisher, Jesse douses the flames with their remaining drinking water. "Excuse me for thinking on my feet," Jesse says when Walt blames him for their predicament.
Jesse tries to call Skinny Pete for help, but can't get a cell phone signal. Walt's phone works, but he assumes that Skyler checks his call logs and only reluctantly hands it over to Jesse. Skinny Pete gets lost on the way, and Walt's phone's battery dies before Jesse can redirect him. The next morning, Walt tries to "trickle charge" the battery by hand-cranking the generator. He and Jesse share cranking duties for hours in the hot sun. Taking a break, Jesse walks over to Walt, who erupts into a heavy fit of coughing. Jesse realizes that Walter's health must be eroding and that he lied about the methylamine spoiling.
After still more cranking, the engine fires up briefly, but dies. Jesse punches the dash in frustration. He exits the RV to find Walt sitting in a field of grass, one palm covered in coughed-up blood.
Resigned, Walt and Jesse lay on cots in the RV to escape the desert heat. "I deserve this," Walt says. Jesse argues that everything Walt has done was for his family. Walt counters the only thing he ever did for his family was worry and disappoint them. "All the lies," Walt continues. "I can't even keep them straight in my head anymore." Jesse wants to start walking out of the desert, but Walt warns that he'll die within an hour.
Jesse rattles off things Walt could create with their lab supplies — a robot, a homing device, a dune buggy — until one idea clicks with Walt: he can make a mercury battery using chemicals, coins, and galvanized metal. Explaining the science to Jesse as he goes along, Walt assembles the battery. The duo connect the battery to the RV and a big spark shoots off the terminal. Back in the RV, Walt tries the ignition and after several anxious seconds the engine groans to life. When Jesse drops off Walt at the airport, he assures him that, "Whatever happens, your family will get your share," Jesse replies.
At Dr. Delcavoli's office, Walt learns that, contrary to his worst fears, his cancer is in remission and his tumor has shrunk by 80 percent. Skyler, Junior, Hank, and Marie celebrate, but Walt admits he has been coughing up blood, to which Dr. Delcavoli reveals that the large white spot on his scan is treatable tissue inflammation. Walt goes to the restroom and washes his face. As he dries his hands, Walt looks up and sees his reflection in the metal towel dispenser. After pausing briefly, Walt violently punches the dispenser with his fist in anger.
The episode opens up on the pink teddy bear previously seen in other episodes. The bear is put into a container, along with other retrieved items as men in hazmat suits continue to clean the area. Two of them carry the container past Walt's Aztek—with its windshield broken—and two body bags lying in the driveway of the White residence.
As Walt prepares to return to work, Skyler convinces him to stay home, wanting him in good shape for a party she is planning, celebrating his remission. As soon as she leaves, Walt calls Jesse. The duo eat at Taco Sal, where Jesse is happy to hear that Walt is in remission. Jesse wonders how they'll proceed in "light of this kickass news.", Walt says that he plans to retire from the drug trade after they unload the remaining meth.
At Walt's party, Skyler thanks everyone for their support, and toasts to the absent Gretchen and Elliott. Walt's briefly remarks "When I got my diagnosis — cancer — I said to myself, you know...'Why me?' And then... the other day... when I got the good news... I said the same thing.", and in response, is met awkward silence.
Chatting at the poolside with Walt and Junior, Hank says that the "cartel boys" putting Tortuga's severed head on a tortoise rigged with explosives was "poetic". Walt, angry that Junior is more impressed with Hank's story, pours tequila shots for Hank, himself, and Junior. Despite Hank's protests, Walt pours two more rounds of tequila and, when Hank takes away the bottle, angrily demands that he give it back. The tension builds until Junior, sick from the tequila, stumbles to the pool and vomits. While Skyler attends to her son, an obstinate Walt downs another shot.
At Jesse's apartment, Jesse awkwardly prepares Jane a surprise breakfast of huevos rancheros. Meanwhile, Walt leaves an apology on Skyler's voicemail for his behavior at the party. He starts washing the dishes, but stops when the faucet spits out brown, frothy water from the house's faulty water heater. At work, Ted bumps into Skyler while she listens to Walt's message. During their conversation, Skyler explains that Walt has cancer, but that they got good news last week. Walt heads to the hardware store and is proud to pay cash for a top of the line tankless water heater. Counting out the bills, he discreetly pockets a twenty that's smeared with blood and tells the clerk he'll install the heater himself.
Jesse and Jane lounge in bed while she peruses superhero sketches Jesse drew as a kid. Someone knocks on Jane's front door. Without explanation, she races out Jesse's back door and into her own apartment. Jane greets her father, Donald Margolis, just before he uses his key to open her door. While they talk, Jesse emerges from his apartment and introduces himself, but Jane brushes him off as the "new tenant".
After testing the new water heater, Walt apologizes to Junior for his actions at the party. "But I kept up, right?" Walter Jr. asks. "You and Uncle Hank — I drank three." Concerned, Walt shuffles out of the room. Later, Walt goes back to the hardware store and loads up on supplies to dismantle the rotted floor in his utility closet. Later, Junior comes home and finds Walt sawing away under the house. Meanwhile, Jesse confronts Jane about how she treated him in front of Donald, believing that she is embarrassed by him. Jane responds that she can't admit to her father that she is sleeping with a stoner living next door. Disgusted, Jesse leaves.
Working late, Skyler gets teary-eyed with Ted, confessing she feels guilty for not feeling better after Walt's good news. "Being that rock" for one's family "takes everything you've got," Ted tells her, putting his hand on hers. She withdraws her hand, but then returns it.
The next morning, Skyler and Junior eat their breakfast in silence as Walt continues his construction project. When he takes a break to eat some toast, Skyler asks Walt if he's going to work that day, Walt responds, telling her that there's rot; Walt then drinks orange juice, and gets back to work, dealing with the rot. At work, Skyler deliberately upends her penholder to draw Ted's attention. When he comes to her aid she plays with her hair and flirts with him.
In his apartment, a distraught Jesse smokes meth and curls up in his recliner. A sheet of paper slides under his door. It's a sketch of a superheroine named "Apology Girl", leaving Jesse smiling.
"Stay out of my territory."
Back at the hardware store, Walt notices acetone, lye, and other meth supplies in a shopping cart. When a tweaker returns with boxes of matches, Walt points out that the ones he got are incorrect and him buying all of the supplies from one store will raise suspicion. Spooked, the guy runs away. Walt gets in line to purchase his own selections but suddenly changes his mind and heads to the parking lot. Staring down the tweeker's burly partner, Walt says, "Stay out of my territory." Frightened, the two get in their RV and drive away while Walt watches with a look of grim satisfaction.
Casually sipping a fountain drink, Combo is standing on a street corner, selling Walt's meth in new territory. A car pulls up and Combo is confronted by two rival dealers inside. After Combo raises his shirt and shows them the silver pistol in his waistband, the dealers pull off. Combo returns back to the corner as the two men circle the block, watching him from an intersection. Nervous, Combo calls Skinny Pete and asks for backup. While he talks, a young boy circles him on his bicycle. Moments later, the dealers honk the horn of their car, signaling the boy to brandish a pistol and shoots Combo in the chest. Combo tries to flee, but only makes it to the middle of the street before the boy finishes him off. The boy and the dealers then flee the scene as Combo bleeds to death.
Walt and Skyler meet with Dr. Delcavoli and Dr. Victor Bravenec, a thoracic surgeon. Dr. Bravenec tells Walt he is a candidate for an aggressive, risky surgery to remove his lung tumor. Learning that he's "just waiting for the cancer to spread" if he passes, Walt agrees to the surgery even though the bill could run as high as $200,000. Later that day, Jesse calls Walt to inform him of Combo's death, only for Walt to indirectly admit to not even remembering who Combo was, causing Jesse to hang up in disgust. Meanwhile, at Jesse's apartment, Skinny Pete bemoans Jesse's mandate to expand their territory and wants out of Walt's meth business, saying that they have lost their street cred now that everyone knows Jesse didn't actually kill Spooge.
Walt and Jesse visit Saul's office, where their conversation quickly devolves into an argument over who's to blame for their setbacks. Saul puts a stop to the argument and after checking with Jesse that Combo didn't have anything identifying him as one of their dealers, says that the police are unlikely to spend much effort investigating his death. Walt angrily complains that their distribution network has completely collapsed, leaving them with no way of shifting the thirty-eight pounds of meth they have to hand after their recent cooking session. Saul is momentarily stunned by this revelation, and then bluntly tells them that they "suck at peddling meth," but offers to put them in touch with a cautious, low profile businessman who will buy their thirty-eight pounds of product in bulk. Later that day, Jesse asks Jane to leave his apartment; he feels responsible for Combo's death and needs to smoke some crystal, but doesn't want her to risk a relapse. Jane suggests a support group meeting, but Jesse rejects the idea. Jane starts to leave, but turns around and follows Jesse into his bedroom.
Walt goes to a local fast food restaurant, Los Pollos Hermanos, where he and Jesse are scheduled to meet Saul's businessman. Jesse arrives late, high, and agitated. Annoyed that they don't even know their contact's name, Jesse quickly leaves. However, Walt stays, hoping the businessman will show. Later, Skyler watches her unborn baby on an ultrasound monitor at her OB/GYN's office. Walt is late, but he arrives before Skyler decides to schedule a C-section rather than going through a potentially difficult labor. Meanwhile, Jesse returns to his messy apartment, where Jane has relapsed. The couple decide to go on an impromptu trip to Santa Fe.
At Beneke Fabricators, Skyler attends an office birthday party for Ted. Although she's reluctant at first, she grants Ted's birthday wish for a sultry rendition of Marilyn Monroe's "Happy Birthday, Mr. President". Ted kisses her on the cheek.
Walt calls Saul, complaining that the businessman never showed up for their meeting. Saul informs Walt that the contact was in fact there, but that he's no longer interested in working with them. Walt demands a second chance, but according to Saul, "with this particular individual, all you get is the one shot." Walt returns to Los Pollos Hermanos and sits at a booth, eating and thinking, until it dawns on him that the restaurant's amiable, unassuming manager is Saul's contact. The manager feigns ignorance when Walt reveals his suspicions, but Walt persists. Walt says that he understands Gus's cautiousness, and feels that he deserves a second chance. His demeanour changing instantly to cold, meticulous steel, Gus counters that Walt is "not a cautious man at all,” an proceeds to criticise Jesse for being late and high. Walt maintains that he can trust Jesse and assures him that he can move the thirty-eight pounds of meth at a moment's notice. Gus’s face remains unmoved , and he simply walks away, warning Walt, "You can never trust a drug addict." Pressing his luck, Walt asks if he will be in touch, and Gus reassumes his public mask and pleasantly confirms he has Walt’s number.
Skyler shows Ted some irregularities she discovered on his company's books. Ted tries to convince Skyler it's nothing, but eventually admits he's committing tax fraud to keep the company afloat and all of his workers employed. Skyler tells Ted that she won't turn him in, but also that she wants no part of what he is doing.
At his apartment, Jesse sits in his recliner listening as Skinny Pete leaves a voicemail recap of Combo's funeral. Jane arrives and introduces Jesse to heroin, handing him one of two two hypodermic needles. With swift precision, she mixes up a meth and heroin speedball. Jesse injects the speedball and is immediately overwhelmed by the resulting high.
At the high school, Walt's second cell phone vibrates in his classroom's ceiling while his students are taking an exam. Upon retrieving it after class, Walt reads a single text message: "POLLOS." Walt rushes to the Los Pollos Hermanos and is surprised to discover a different person running the restaurant. The manager on duty tells Walt that the man he mistook for the manager is actually the owner, Gustavo Fring. As Walt leaves, a henchman for Gus stops him and offers him $1.2 million for the thirty-eight pounds of meth, but also instructs him to deliver it to a local truck stop within the hour, or never show his face at the restaurant again. Racing away in his car, Walt leaves a phone message for Jesse: "I need the product now!"
Meanwhile, Skyler has decided to continue working for Ted despite knowing about his tax fraud. However, while she is sitting at her desk lamenting her decision, she goes into labor.
Reaching the duplex, Walt bangs on Jesse's front door. No one answers. Skyler tries to call Walt stands on Jesse's front porch, but he doesn't answer his phone. Walt rushes to Jesse's backyard and breaks down his back door with a flower pot. Walt tries to awaken a passed-out Jesse, frantically trying to find out where he stashed the meth. Jesse mumbles that the meth is under his kitchen sink before going under again.
While stuffing the bundles of meth into a garbage bag, Walt ignores another call from Skyler. When his phone chirps, Walt stops to read a text message: "BABY COMING!!!" He starts to smile, but realizes that he has to miss the birth of his daughter in order to make the meeting with Gus. Walt hoists the garbage bag over his shoulder and rushes out the door.
Mysterious person in Jesse's apartment on the left-hand side.

Having successfully delivered his thirty-eight pounds of meth to Gus, Walt races into the parking lot of an abandoned motel. There, he calls the hospital and learns that Skyler has given birth. Walt stashes a duffel bag inside his Aztek and races to Skyler's hospital room, where he tenderly holds his newborn daughter. However, he notices Ted, who had driven Skyler to the hospital. Walt runs home to retrieve Skyler's overnight bag and unload his duffel, which is packed with over $1 million cash.
The next morning, Jane is roused by a phone call from her father, Donald. When she tells Jesse that someone broke into his apartment through the back door, Jesse races into the kitchen and panics upon finding the meth missing. After Jane and Donald attend a support group meeting, the two talk at a coffee shop. Donald asks if Jane is seeing Jesse and is unconvinced when she says she isn't.
Meanwhile, at the White residence, Walt Jr. answers a silent phone call. Walt fights for the phone when it rings again, pretending it's about the new baby. When he's out of earshot, Walt berates Jesse for calling at his home number and when Jesse tells him that the meth is missing. A few moments later, Jesse notices four messages on his answering machine.
That evening, Hank and Marie head to the White residence for a family dinner, consisting of chicken from Los Pollos Hermanos. While they eat, Skyler tells the family that she plans to return to Beneke Fabricators; with Walt's upcoming surgery she will need to supplement her income. Late that night, Walt shows his new daughter, Holly, the cash he's hidden behind the wall insulation inside the garage. "Daddy did that for you," he says.
The next day, Jesse goes to Walt's classroom and angrily confronts him for taking the meth stash. In response, Walt angrily blames Jesse for being strung out during "the biggest deal of our lives" and forcing him to miss Holly's birth as a result. Walt refuses Jesse's demand of $480,000, saying he will kill himself within a week if he spends the money on dope. Jesse insists he is clean, but balks when Walt hands him a glass beaker and challenges him to take a urine test. Realizing he has been caught out, Jesse smashes the beaker against the chalkboard and storms out.
Back home, Junior proudly unveils his new website: SaveWalterWhite.com, where visitors can donate funds for Walt's surgery. Walt is mortified by the appeal for charity, but Skyler says that it would crush their son if Walt made him take it down, questioning why he is so offended. Saul tells Walt that he knows of a hacker in Belarus who will launder Walt's drug money through his son's website. Walt resents the idea, as this would mean his family would never know he was responsible for the cash. Meanwhile, a doped-out Jesse complains to Jane that Walt owes him $480,000; she is astonished by the amount.
The following day, Donald attends a support group meeting without Jane. Returning to the duplex, he catches her exiting Jesse's apartment. Barging past her, Donald enters the apartment and spots their stash of heroin. Enraged, he attacks Jesse, who defends himself with a baseball bat. Exasperated, Donald calls the police to report the couple, but relents when Jane promises to enter rehab the following day. However, after he leaves, Jane suggests that she and Jesse can do whatever they want once they receive Jesse's money. Having learned about Walt's background from Jesse, she calls Walt and threatens to ruin him if he doesn't deliver the money that night.
As Jesse and Jane contemplate whether Walt will cave to their demands, Skyler sends Walt to the store for diapers. Walt grabs a duffel containing Jesse's share of the cash and heads to the duplex. Walt insists on only handing over the money to Jesse, who angrily tells him that he won't see them again. Jane then slams the door in Walt's face. With the bundles of cash in both hands, Jane giddily says that the money will allow them to go anywhere and become anybody they want. Caught up in the moment, the couple dream about using their money to start a new life in New Zealand after they get clean.
Meanwhile, Walt goes to a bar and calls Skyler on a payphone, falsely telling her that he can't find the right size of diapers. He finds himself sitting next to Donald, unaware that he is Jane's father. The two men talk about daughters and family. Referring to Jesse as an unnamed "nephew" who's in trouble, Walt describes the frustration of knowing what's best for kids who refuse to listen. Taking the conversation to heart, Walt decides to return to Jesse's apartment in the hopes of talking sense to him.
After getting no answer at the front door, and breaking in through the back door as he had before, Walt finds Jesse and Jane passed out in bed. Walt is saddened upon seeing the used syringes on the bedside table. When he attempts to wake up Jesse, Jane inadvertently flops onto her back. Moments later, Jane starts retching and choking. Walt initially moves to help her — but after some contemplation, he pauses.
With Jesse still passed out beside her, Walt watches as Jane asphyxiates on her own vomit and ultimately dies. Shaken, Walt tries to recompose himself as a tear runs down his cheek. His heart, however, soon hardens as he also realizes the threat of Jane blackmailing him and taking Jesse away as his partner is no longer a concern.

In a continuation of the flashforward from previous episodes, workers in hazmat suits load the items collected from Walt's pool—including the charred, one-eyed pink teddy bear—into the back of a van belonging to the NTSB. As the van pulls out, the camera pans up over the White residence to reveal two giant pillars of smoke rising in the distance over Albuquerque.
Inside his apartment, Jesse frantically tries to revive Jane, who choked on her own vomit overnight. Distraught and panicking, Jesse calls Walt—unaware of his role in facilitating Jane's death—who assures him everything will be okay. Cuddling Holly in his arms, Walt assures Jesse, "I know who to call."
A short time later, a man named Mike Ehrmantraut drives to the apartment, having been sent there by Saul. Mike gathers Jesse's drug paraphernalia and cash, clearing away all the evidence. Smacking the shell-shocked Jesse into cognizance, Mike coaches him on how to respond to medical investigators when they arrive to collect the body and instructs him to not disclose that Mike was there.
At the White residence, Skyler and Walt Jr. are excited by the apparent donations being donated through SaveWalterWhite.com, unaware that the donations are in fact Walt's own laundered drug money. Skyler chides her husband for seeming unenthused. Meanwhile, Jane's father Donald drives to the duplex, leaving a voicemail warning her to be ready to go to rehab. However, when he arrives, Donald is distraught to find an ambulance on the scene. He immediately realizes what has happened.
Inside Jesse's apartment, Donald watches silently as paramedics move Jane's body into a cadaver bag. Jesse is being interviewed by the medical investigator in the next room, following Mike's rehearsed script. After answering a few questions by a policewoman, Donald notices Jane's "Apology Girl" sketch and leaves with it, with not even a glance towards a guilt-ridden Jesse.
At the DEA field office, Hank hits up his co-workers for donations to Walt's surgery fund. The team is then briefed on Combo's murder. Hank questions how a "dipshit, wannabe banger" with no street rep was dealing professional-grade meth, while "Blue Sky" has disappeared from New Mexico yet has begun to appear elsewhere around the Southwest. He maintains that Heisenberg is still at large and most likely in Albuquerque.
While Skyler and Junior continue monitoring the donation counter on SaveWalterWhite.com, Walt calls Saul and demands to know where he can find Jesse. Mike drives Walt to a dilapidated trap house known as "The Shooting Gallery". Against Mike's advice, Walt enters and locates a passed-out Jesse. As Walt insists on getting him help, Jesse begins to sob in the belief that he killed Jane. A saddened Walt is conscience-stricken by Jesse's anguish.
A grieving Donald, talking over the phone with Jane's mother, visits her apartment and searches for a suitable dress to put on Jane's body for her funeral. Meanwhile, as Junior continues watching the donation counter, Walt tells him to turn down the sound on the computer, claiming it's disturbing Holly. Skyler announces that, courtesy of Marie, the Albuquerque Journal will be interviewing Junior about his website. Later, Marie arranges for a local news station to interview Walt's family for a segment. An agonized Walt can barely fight back tears of guilt as Junior extols his virtues.
At the DEA office, Hank's boss, ASAC George Merkert, introduces him to three local businessmen who are donating to the agency, one of whom is Gus Fring. Noticing Walt's photo on Hank's donation jar, Gus asks Hank about him and learns that Walt is his brother-in-law who is fighting lung cancer. Gus slips a donation into the jar. Elsewhere, Walt takes Jesse to Serenity, a high-end rehab center. Sitting in a bathrobe by the pool, a despairing Jesse says, "What you said in the desert. I get it now… what you meant. I deserve whatever happens."
In the hospital, a nurse administers a relaxant to prep Walt for surgery. As the relaxant takes effect, Skyler asks Walt where his cell phone is so she can hold it for him. "Which one?" he groggily responds. Skyler is crestfallen. Walt is taken into surgery.
Several weeks after the operation, Walt and Skyler visit Dr. Delcavoli and Dr. Bravenec, who tell them that the operation was a success. Choosing her words carefully, Skyler asks whether Walt can now live independently, to which Dr. Bravenec says that he can. Meanwhile, Donald returns to work for the first time since Jane's death. It is revealed he works as an air traffic controller.
Upon returning home, Skyler tells Walt that she and the kids are visiting Hank and Marie for the weekend and that she wants Walt out of the house by the time she returns. As she packs up her things, Skyler reveals that Walt's lie about his second cell phone led her to unravel all of his other lies, learning that Gretchen and Elliott did not pay for his cancer treatment, that he faked his "fugue state" after going missing, and that he never visited his mother or told her that he had cancer. Walt follows Skyler outside to the driveway, promising to tell her the truth if she agrees to stay. "Whatever it is, I'm afraid to know," she replies before driving away.
At the air traffic control center, Donald corrects himself after identifying a charter plane, JM21, as "Jane Mike Two One" instead of "Juliet Mike Two One", having been momentarily being distracted with grief. Sweating, Donald keeps talking — trying to correct his error — but his radar screen shows JM21 on a collision course with a commercial airliner, Wayfarer 515.
As Walt sits ruminating next to his pool, he is suddenly startled by a massive explosion overhead. Walt looks up to see smoke and fire resulting from the collision of the two aircraft. Mouth agape, he watches debris fall from the sky, and witnesses a pink blur splashing into the pool—the half-burnt teddy bear. The screen transitions to the black and white of the flashforwards depicted throughout the season, as the teddy bear sinks to the bottom of the pool.
