Walter is recording a farewell to his family
In the New Mexico desert, a man wearing nothing but his underwear and a gas mask erratically drives an RV down a desolate dirt road. In the passenger seat, another man is passed out, also wearing a gas mask. In the back of the RV are two bodies. After crashing the RV in a ditch, the driver climbs out, dons a shirt hanging from the side view mirror, and retrieves a camcorder and gun from the vehicle. Recording a message on the camcorder, the man identifies himself as Walter White and bids a cryptic farewell to his wife and son. Sirens are heard in the distance. Walt walks onto the road and awaits the apparent approach of police, gun in hand.
Veggie bacon for Walt's 50th birthday
Three weeks earlier, it is Walt's 50th birthday. Inside his modest suburban home in Albuquerque, Walt wakes up before dawn and exercises while contemplating a plaque on his wall commemorating his contributions to research that won a Nobel Prize in Chemistry. At breakfast, his pregnant wife, Skyler, hands him a plate of eggs topped by veggie bacon spelling out "50". They banter with their son, Walt Jr., who has cerebral palsy. Afterwards, Walt drops off Junior at J. P. Wynne High School, where he also works as a chemistry teacher. In class, he explains to his apathetic students how he regards chemistry as the study of change as well as matter.
After school, Walt performs his second job at a car wash, where he finds himself wiping down the convertible of a disrespectful student. Returning home, he discovers that Skyler has organized a surprise birthday party for him. Among the guests is Walt's gregarious brother-in-law, Hank Schrader, a DEA agent. Coincidentally, Hank is the subject of a local news report covering a methamphetamine lab bust. Walt is impressed with the amount of money recovered from the dealers, and Hank discloses that he confiscated $700,000. Hank then invites Walt to accompany him on another bust as a ride-along. Meanwhile, Skyler talks to her sister Marie, Hank's wife, about her pregnancy.
Walt is given his diagnosis
While working at the car wash the following day, Walt suddenly collapses and is taken away by ambulance. At the hospital, a doctor informs a detached Walt that he has inoperable lung cancer and has a couple of more years to live at best. Upon returning to the car wash, Walt becomes angry when his boss, Bogdan, asks him to wipe down cars again. He screams obscenities at Bogdan as he storms out of the car wash.
Taking up Hank's offer, Walt accompanies him to a bust along with his partner, Steven Gomez. While Hank and Gomez raid a meth lab belonging to local dealer known as "Cap'n Cook", Walt waits outside in their SUV. There, he unexpectedly spots a former student named Jesse Pinkman escaping through the window of a neighboring house. As Jesse flees the scene, Walt realizes that he is the dealer whom Hank and Gomez are trying to catch. Later that night, Walt visits Jesse's house and blackmails him into letting him become a partner in his meth operation, with Walt offering his knowledge in chemistry in exchange for Jesse's knowledge in drug dealing.
Walt stealing equipment from school
The following day, Walt steals boxes full of chemistry equipment from the high school, while Jesse arranges to buy a used RV that will be used as the duo's mobile meth lab. Upon driving into the desert, Walt strips down to his underwear (so as not to contaminate his clothes with chemical odors) and cooks his first batch of methamphetamine. Jesse is astonished with the chemical purity of the product Walt has produced.
Jesse takes a sample of Walt's meth to Krazy-8, a mid-level drug distributor who happens to be the cousin of Jesse's partner, Emilio Koyama. Emilio, who was arrested in Hank's bust and is now out on bail, believes that Jesse ratted him out. The three then drive out to the RV, where Krazy-8 asks Walt if he wants to switch allegiances. Before he can answer, Emilio recognizes Walt from the bust and begins threatening him. Jesse tries to flee but trips and knocks himself out on a rock. Walt barters for his life by promising to reveal his meth formula.
Emilio ties up Jesse, then joins Krazy-8 in watching Walt cook. As Walt prepares the ingredients, Emilio absent-mindedly throws a cigarette out the window, starting a brush fire. Inside, Walt mixes chemicals that produce a deadly vapor before he dashes out of the RV. Krazy-8 and Emilio begin firing bullets through the door of the RV over Walt's head but are eventually overcome by the fumes. Walt unties Jesse, puts a gas mask on him, and props him in the passenger seat before making his attempt to escape in the opening scene.
Krazy-8 offering Walt money
With the sound of sirens closing in, Walt tries to shoot himself only to find that the gun's safety is on. However, he soon realizes that the sirens he is hearing are not coming from police cars, but from fire trucks responding to the brush fire. Walt hides the gun in the back of his underwear while Jesse, sporting a black eye, regains consciousness and comes out to join him. Walt's first day as a meth cook leaves him spent, shaken, but also invigorated. Returning home, he meets Skyler's troubled queries with atypical sexual aggression which leaves her stunned.
The whole series starts on Walt's 50th birthday, the date for which was September 7th, 2008. On that day it was Sunday, however, no explanation is given on why Walter and his son visited the school on the weekends.
After having rough sex with Skyler, Walt gets up to wash up in the bathroom. He looks at himself in the mirror. The scene shifts to twelve hours before, as a pants-less Walt and a black-eyed Jesse hire a truck driver to pull the RV out of the ditch. Afterwards, the two agree to end their criminal partnership as soon as they deal with the bodies of Emilio and Krazy-8. However, as Walt finally gets the engine of the RV to turn over, a sound alerts them to the fact that one of the "dead" men isn't dead.
The following morning, Walt wakes up naked on his bathroom floor. His breakfast with his family is interrupted when Jesse calls his house posing as a telemarketer. When Walt finds privacy, Jesse demands that he help out in dealing with Krazy-8 and disposing of Emilio's body. Walt says that he can't come until after work. After he leaves for school, Skyler hits redial and hears Jesse's profane voicemail message, revealing to her that Walt was not talking to a telemarketer.
At school, an anxious Walt mishears a student asking about the "murder" instead of the "midterm". After class, he raids the chemistry supply closet for hydrofluoric acid. Meanwhile, Jesse hears more noise coming from the RV. When he looks out his window, he's stunned to see the vehicle's door wide open and Krazy-8 nowhere to be found.
Krazy 8 walking down the street
Driving to Jesse's house in his Pontiac Aztek, Walt encounters an injured Krazy-8 stumbling down the middle of a suburban street. Walt waves him toward the car, but Krazy-8 recognizes his voice and tries to escape, only to knock himself out when he runs directly into a tree. Walt throws the unconscious drug dealer into his car.
Jesse with the plastic containers
At the White residence, Skyler conducts a web search and finds one of Jesse's social media profiles. Meanwhile, Walt brings the unconscious Krazy-8 back to Jesse's house, where they take him into the basement and secure him to a pole with a bicycle lock around his neck. Walt and Jesse then argue about what to do next. Their first priority is to dispose of Emilio's body and destroy the evidence, with Walt suggesting that they use hydrochloric acid to perform the task. They also agree that Krazy-8 can't be left alive, tossing a coin to see who will kill him. Jesse wins the toss and chooses to dispose of Emilio's body, thus it falls upon Walt to kill Krazy-8. Walt instructs Jesse to buy a specific plastic bin so that the body can be properly disposed. However, upon visiting a home supply store, an impatient Jesse can't find a bin that's big enough for the body.
At Jesse's house, Walt, reluctant to kill Krazy-8, ends up serving him a sandwich and providing makeshift toiletries instead. In order to relieve his stress, he smokes Jesse's marijuana. Jesse returns home and asks Walt how the murder went. Walt promises to take care of Krazy-8 tomorrow, then leaves to meet Skyler at a hospital for her sonogram. There, the couple learn that they are expecting a girl. Afterward, Skyler confronts Walt about his association with Jesse. In an attempt to hide the truth, Walt falsely confesses that Jesse is his pot dealer and, frustrated by her complaints, asks her to "climb out of my ass".
Jesse is confronted by Skyler.
Walt struggles to keep his secrets in check at work while Jesse retrieves Emilio's body from the RV. As he is dragging the body across the driveway, Skyler appears at his front gate. Jesse quickly positions himself so that she can't see the body. Skyler tells Jesse that her brother-in-law is a DEA agent and warns Jesse to stop selling pot to her husband. After she leaves, Jesse hauls Emilio's body up to his second-floor bathroom and, donning a gas mask, tries to dissolve the body in the bathtub with the hydrofluoric acid.
Jesse learns the hard way.
When Walt returns to the house, Jesse informs him of Skyler's visit and that he dissolved Emilio's body in the bathtub without having to buy the plastic bin. In horror, Walt hurries into the hallway beneath the upstairs bathroom. Sizzling liquid can be seen seeping from the ceiling through the floor. Suddenly, the ceiling collapses followed by a cascade of gore, a mixture of hydrofluoric acid and Emilio's half-dissolved remains. Walt turns to Jesse and states the reason he asked for a plastic container: hydrofluoric acid eats through most materials except plastic. In the basement, Krazy-8 eyes a growing puddle of acidic fluid dripping onto the basement floor. Meanwhile, out in the desert, two Native American children find Walt's discarded gas mask.
Despite Krazy-8 offering Walt his money in sealed plastic bag in "Pilot", it is now in a brown paper bag which caused it to get wet from the spilled chemicals in the RV although the money getting wet explains why Walt removed it from a dryer at the end of "Pilot."
When Walt confronts Jesse in the bathroom about him telling Krazy-8 about Walt's name and his son, Jesse accidentally knocks over a painting making it shatter to the ground. But one shot later, the shattered painting on the floor somehow disappears and reappears multiple times (both on the floor and on the wall).

As he is helping Jesse to scrub up the dissolved remains of Emilio, Walt flashes back to his days as a graduate student. In a college classroom, Walt and a female lab partner are analyzing the human body's chemical composition. After discovering that only 99 percent of the body's makeup is accounted for chemically, Walt muses that there has to be more to a human being than that. Back in the present, Walt flushes a bloody bucketful down the toilet.
At the White residence, Skyler and Junior are painting the new baby's room as Marie looks on. Junior's cell phone rings and he departs. Having been told by Walt that he has been smoking marijuana, Skyler tells her sister that she's writing a story with a stoner character and asks her about pot. Marie jumps to the conclusion that it's Junior who is smoking marijuana and doesn't believe Skyler when she tries to insist otherwise.
Walt and Jesse scuffle over a bag of meth.
At Jesse's house, Jesse sneaks into the bathroom to smoke meth. In the basement, Krazy-8, who remains shackled to the pipe, startles Walt by addressing him by name and revealing personal details that Jesse has apparently told him. Walt angrily goes upstairs to confront Jesse, who is high and refuses to let him enter the bathroom, and breaks down the door. A scuffle ensues over Jesse's bag of meth, which he tosses out the window. Walt has a coughing fit while trying to chase Jesse downstairs, and barely recovers in time to catch Jesse before he drives off in his car. Walt says there's more work to do, but Jesse leaves.
Marie phones Hank in the middle of a drug bust, convinced that he needs to scare Junior straight. While initially reluctant, Hank drives Junior to "The Crystal Palace," a local roach motel patronized by meth addicts and prostitutes. Hank warns Junior that marijuana is a gateway to heavier drugs, trying to prove his point by calling over a disheveled prostitute, Wendy, and showing Junior how meth has corroded her teeth. Disgusted, Hank threatens to bust Wendy if he sees her working there again. Wendy stumbles off and enters a motel room, where she has sex with Jesse.
Back at Jesse's house, Walt jots down the pros and cons of killing Krazy-8. He comes up with several arguments in support of clemency, while the sole entry in the "Kill Him" column is: "He'll kill your entire family if you let him go." Walt calls Skyler to claim he is running late at the car wash, but learns that she already knows he has been fired from that job. Skyler angrily tells Walt to spend the night wherever he is. He makes a sandwich for Krazy-8 but collapses on the basement floor while delivering it, shattering the plate.
After regaining consciousness, Walt tells Krazy-8 that he has lung cancer, scoops up the plate shards, and leaves to make another sandwich. Upon returning, he tries to get to know Krazy-8, who tells Walt that doing so won't make killing him any easier. Walt admits that he is looking for a reason not to. The two seem to bond as Krazy-8 reminisces about being the son of a local furniture-store owner whose commercials air on late-night television. Walt recalls buying a crib for Junior from the same store. When Walt admits that he hasn't told his family about the cancer diagnosis, Krazy-8 deduces that Walt is cooking meth so he can leave money for his family. Krazy-8 offers to write Walt a check, then suggests he isn't cut out for murder. When Walt leaves to retrieve the key to the bike lock, Krazy-8 seems relieved.
Walt gets the key, but a sudden flash of insight prompts him to piece the broken plate back together; he realizes a large knife-shaped shard is missing. Back downstairs, Krazy-8 stands quietly as Walt approaches and motions his hostage to turn around so he can slip the key into the lock. When Walt hesitates, Krazy-8 gently commands him to unlock it. As he grasps the lock, Walt asks if Krazy-8 is going stab him with the shard once set free. Krazy-8 stabs backward wildly while Walt pulls back hard on the lock, strangling him. Krazy-8 manages to stab Walt in the leg before finally expiring. Walt tearfully apologizes as he dies.
The following morning, Jesse returns home to find Krazy-8 missing from the basement and the bike lock left behind. Meanwhile, the DEA discover Walt and Jesse's cook site in the desert. Hank and Gomez quickly put together a theory that a mobile meth lab caught fire and that the occupants sped off after putting it out. However, Krazy-8's low-rider car has been left behind. Hank wonders why until he discovers meth hidden behind the stereo. Meanwhile, Walt parks his Pontiac Aztek on the shoulder of a freeway overpass, resuming his flashback to discussing human chemistry with his lab partner. Returning home, he finds Skyler sobbing in their bedroom. He informs her that there is something he has to tell her, alluding to his lung cancer diagnosis.
During a meeting the DEA's Albuquerque field office, Hank puts his team on notice that "new players" are producing a super-pure type of methamphetamine, describing the criminals as possessing a high skill set. The scene then cuts to Walt, standing at his bathroom mirror in his underwear, messily brushing his teeth.
Walt and his family discusses his situation.
Walt, Hank, Skyler, Marie, and Junior have a barbecue at the White residence. Walt reminisces about the first time he met Skyler, which causes her to burst into tears and run inside the house. When Marie asks Walt what is wrong, he tells the rest of the family about his cancer diagnosis. Junior, Hank and Marie are shocked at the news. Skyler blames chemicals from Walt's past lab work for the cancer, Marie proposes an oncology treatment plan, and Hank assures Walt that he will take care of his family if the worst comes to pass.
Meanwhile, Jesse is hanging at his house with two friends, Combo and Skinny Pete. Jesse brags about cooking a great batch of meth but only offers them marijuana, saying he's trying to lay off the meth because it's making him paranoid. When they get up to leave, Jesse says he is just joking and pulls a bag out of his pocket. The next morning, Jesse peers through parted curtains at the street outside and, under meth-induced hallucinations, mistakes two Mormon missionaries as a pair of threatening bikers. Jesse escapes out the back door.
Skyler makes an appointment for Walt to visit a top-rated oncologist. Walt initially balks at paying a $5,000 deposit on the treatment but eventually relents, saying he'll borrow the money from his pension. Instead, he retrieves some drug money he has hidden in a heating duct inside his house. Walt pretends he's checking for mice when Junior interrupts him, confused by Walt acting as if nothing is going on.
While Walt is visiting his credit union, a man in a BMW convertible — his license plate reading "KEN WINS" — swipes his parking space while loudly talking into his Bluetooth earpiece. Inside the credit union, Walt presents a teller a wad of cash and asks for a cashier's check made out to the oncology partnership. While he waits in line, Ken loudly continues his conversation.
That night, a mother, father, and a well-dressed preteen boy are eating dinner in their home when they hear a noise outside. They investigate and discover Jesse with one foot stuck in their patio furniture. They reluctantly allow Jesse to sleep at their house. When he awakes the next evening, the mother and father — revealed to be Jesse's parents — reluctantly decide to let Jesse stay with them on condition that he attend support group meetings concerning his drug use. However, Jesse's mother frets about his effect on the younger boy, Jesse's little brother Jake. Jesse's father says they must lay down the law and be consistent about it this time.
At the high school, Junior sits peering into a microscope in his father's empty chemistry classroom. After a long pause, Walt, who is grading papers, tells his son that things have a way of working themselves out. Junior doesn't reply.
Back at the Pinkman residence, Jesse visits Jake's bedroom and looks at his educational award. He congratulates Jake but advises that "not all learning comes out of books." Jesse asserts that Jake is their favorite son, but Jake tells him that it is Jesse who their parents always talk about.
Alone in his former bedroom, Jesse comes across a chemistry paper from high school that Walt had graded with an "F", along with a caricature drawn on the back mocking the teacher. As he sees this, Combo calls and says Jesse has got customers for his new meth product. Jesse heads over to Walt's house to tell him the news, but Walt is instead angry that Jesse has come to the house to talk business and accuses Jesse of wearing a wire. Walt orders him to leave. Before Jesse does, he leaves $4,000 that their customers have paid for the meth.
Walt's new oncologist, Dr. Delcavoli, tells him and Skyler that his cancer is at Stage 3A, meaning it has spread from his lung to his lymph nodes. Skyler asks if it's curable; Dr. Delcavoli prefers the word treatable. Walt asks about side effects, but zones out as the oncologist describes them.
Jesse being kicked out of his parents' house again.
Meanwhile, a maid dusting Jesse's room finds a marijuana joint, resulting in his parents asking him to leave the house. Jesse picks up the joint and walks away. As he waits for a taxicab outside, Jake comes to say goodbye and asks Jesse to give him back the joint. Jesse instead throws it away, telling Jake it's skunk-weed before driving away.
Skyler asks Walt if he can start his treatment the following week, but Walt expresses reluctance to commit to $90,000 worth of treatment that might not work and could leave them broke. Annoyed at his father giving up so easily, Junior tells him to just give up and die.
While driving around the city, Walt pulls into a gas station and has a powerful coughing fit, one where he hacks up blood. Walt sees Ken pull up in his BMW, again talking loudly into his earpiece. While Ken is inside the gas station, Walt picks up a squeegee, lifts the hood of the BMW, and lays the squeegee between the battery terminals, prompting an electrical short. As he walks back to his own car, the BMW bursts into flames.
Donning a jacket and tie, Jesse interviews for a job at a realty office but bails upon discovering that the job requires him to wear a full-body costume advertising their services. He comes across an old friend, Badger, wearing the costume, and they smoke marijuana together in an alley. Jesse says he's thinking of retiring from the drug business. Badger offers to partner up if he ever gets back in.
Walt and Skyler attend a birthday party for Elliott Schwartz, Walt's friend from graduate school and his former business partner. Also at the party is Elliott's wife, Gretchen, Walt's former lab partner. At the party, Walt views a framed Scientific American cover story about Elliott's company, Gray Matter Technologies, and meets some of Elliott's colleagues. When asked which university he teaches at, Walt hesitates to answer. He and Skyler are embarrassed when their birthday present of ramen pales in comparison to the gifts of the more well-heeled guests.
Elliot with a package of ramen.
Later, while reminiscing about old times, Elliott offers Walt a job at Gray Matter. When Walt declines, Elliott assures him the company has excellent health insurance. Walt is upset as he and Skyler leave the party, annoyed that she told Elliott about his cancer diagnosis and accusing her of putting him up to paying for his treatments.
Jesse and Badger in the RV.
Over breakfast the next morning, Walt and Skyler silently glare at each other. Meanwhile, Jesse shows Badger the RV, and the two head out to the desert to make meth. Badger clowns around while Jesse cooks. However, Jesse is dissatisfied with the poor quality of the meth he cooks.
On a weekend evening, Junior and two friends stand outside a convenience store waiting for a likely prospect to buy them beer. The friends bolt when a guy that Junior approaches turns out to be an off-duty cop. Junior is let off with a warning upon being vouched for by Hank, who then admonishes Junior for contacting him instead of his father. Hank takes Junior home and theorizes to Skyler and Marie that he is acting out because of Walt's illness. Confused by Hank's comments, Skyler clears up the confusion from an earlier conversation with Marie, revealing that it was Walt, not Junior, who has been smoking pot. Skyler remains baffled by Walt's decision not to get treatment, despite it being completely paid for. She suggests they sit Walt down so everyone in the family can voice their concerns.
Skyler and the "talking pillow".
When he returns home, Walt is met by the rest of the family in the living room. Skyler says that she can't understand why Walt is refusing treatment, then makes the other members of the family say their piece as they hold a "talking pillow". Hank tries to use sports metaphors to describe Walt's cancer while Junior calls his father a "pussy" for refusing treatment while he's dealt with cerebral palsy all his life. When Marie and then Hank express support for Walt's decision to die on his own terms, Skyler tries to pressure them to take her side. When Walt finally gets the talking pillow, he asks what good is living for just a little longer when chemotherapy would make it impossible for him to live a normal life. Walt sticks to his decision to refuse treatment.
Meanwhile, Jesse cooks and tosses out a few more batches of meth. When he announces that they can do better, Badger scuffles with him over the rejected meth, furious at his wasting the Pseudo that Badger had worked hard to obtain. Jesse pushes Badger out of the RV and drives away, while Badger fires at the RV with a crossbow.
Walt returns to Jesse's house.
The next morning, Walt smells Skyler's pillow and skin cream, and observes the baby and cancer books on her nightstand. Walking into the kitchen, Walt informs her that he has changed his mind and will accept the treatment. The couple visit a cancer clinic that day. Later, Walt receives a call from Gretchen urging him to accept her and Elliott's money for his cancer treatment. Walt says he appreciates the offer, but falsely claims that his insurance will pay for everything. Walt comes to Jesse's house and asks him if he wants to cook.

As he surveys the RV, Walt gives Jesse a stern lecture on how they will conduct business from now on: Walt is to be the "silent partner" who handles the chemistry side of the operation while Jesse deals on the street. Walt further stresses that he wants "no more bloodshed." This scene is intercut with shots of a bald man calmly walking through a group of bikers on a street littered with smoldering debris. As we pan up and his face is revealed, the bald man is revealed to be Walt in a flashforward.
Walt receiving treatment.
Walt receives treatment at the cancer clinic, convincing Skyler to leave him. Before departing, Skyler expresses concern that the check promised to them by Elliott has not been received. Walt falsely claims that he has deposited Elliott's check, but later asks the clinic's clerk not to deposit his own check until Monday.
The next day, Walt uses the example of fulminated mercury to teach his students how rapid chemical reactions can cause otherwise harmless substances to explode. Before he can finish his lesson, Walt abruptly leaves to vomit in the men's room, after which a school custodian named Hugo assists him. At a cancer support group, Skyler tells Walt she feels he doesn't want her around, and that she and Junior wonder where he disappears some afternoons. Walt says he needs to be alone sometimes, and that he goes on nature walks.
While cooking in the RV, Walt struggles to breathe and stumbles outside. Jesse assists Walt and quickly deduces that he has cancer, having had an aunt who also struggled with the disease. Jesse further realizes that the reason Walt has begun cooking meth is to financially provide for his family after he dies. When Walt can't continue cooking he tosses the respirator to Jesse, who heads into the RV to wrap up the cook.
Meanwhile, Gomez meets Hank in the parking lot of the Express Inn and hands him the gas mask that was discovered at Walt's original cook site. The crime lab report indicates the gas mask comes from Walt's high school.
Jesse selling the product.
At the Crystal Palace and around the city, Jesse sells the new meth batch to eager buyers. The next day, he gives Walt a pre-paid cell phone. Walt is dissatisfied with the $2,600 generated by the batch, only $1,300 of which is now his, but Jesse replies that it isn't easy selling meth "one 'tenth at a time." Wanting to move their product in bulk, Walt asks if Jesse knows any distributors. Jesse alludes to Krazy-8 being his distributor until Walt killed him. Jesse later tells Walt a "badass" named Tuco Salamanca has taken over Krazy-8's territory. Walt demands to meet Tuco, but Jesse insists that they stick with the less-risky approach of selling small quantities of meth.
Walt undergoes further treatment, which leads to more bouts of vomiting. Later, he gets a surprise visit from Hank, who presents him with the stolen gas mask that has now been linked to meth cooking. When Hank inventories the storage room in Walt's chemistry lab, he finds two gas masks missing along with some glassware. Jesse contacts Walt on his pre-paid phone, saying that Skinny Pete, who served time in jail with Tuco, is willing to introduce him. Hank warns Walt to keep a closer eye on his lab equipment, jokingly suggesting that people will suspect him of something drug-related.
Tuco tests the new product.
Across town, Tuco tries some of Walt and Jesse's meth and, impressed, is eager to buy it. Jesse names his price as $35,000, but Tuco tells him he's running a "consignment operation" so Jesse will have to wait. When Jesse demands the money up front and attempts to flee with the meth, he is quickly caught by Tuco's henchmen. Tuco puts some money in a canvas bag, but ends up savagely beating Jesse.
At the high school, Hugo is arrested by the DEA. Over a poker game in Walt's living room, Hank explains that Hugo fit the profile for the lab thefts and that marijuana was found in his vehicle, the latter of which will cost him his job and land him in jail. Walt bets all his chips, causing Hank to fold. Hank looks shocked when Marie shows him Walt had a handful of nothing. As he takes a shower the next morning, Walt's hair falls out in clumps as a result of the chemotherapy. After calling Jesse, he finds out from Skinny Pete that Jesse has ended up in the hospital. There, Walt observes a sleeping Jesse wearing a neck brace and asks Skinny Pete to tell him about Tuco.
Walt visits Jesse in the Hospital
Tuco's hideout is blown to ruin.
The next morning, upon finding more clumps of hair falling out, Walt shaves his head completely. Carrying a bag of what appears to be crystal meth, Walt talks his way into Tuco's hideout. Upon meeting Tuco, Walt identifies himself as "Heisenberg" and demands $50,000, equivalent to $35,000 for the stolen meth, plus $15,000 for Jesse's pain-and-suffering. Tuco and his gang laugh openly at Heisenberg's "brilliant plan", responding to Tuco's theft and assault on Jesse by bringing him even more meth to steal. Walt picks up a crystalline nugget from the bag and calmly informs Tuco, "this is not meth," and hurls it to the floor. The ensuing explosion blows out the windows in Tuco's office, sending debris falling onto the street below.
Ears ringing, coughing violently on plaster dust, Tuco's vision clears just in time to see Walt brandishing the packet of "meth" over his head, and hurriedly tells his men to put away their guns. He agrees to pay Walt the $50,000, and tells him that his meth sold faster than any other product he had ever seen. Walt agrees to sell his next batch to Tuco, provided that payment is made upfront and that Tuco agrees to accept at least two pounds. Before he leaves, Tuco asks what the "meth" in the bag actually is, and Walt reveals it is mercury fulminate.
Walt walks away from the ruined hideout carrying a bag full of cash. In his car, Walt clutches his newly earned wealth and vents his aggression, high on the rush of what he's just done. Regaining his composure, Walt drives away from the scene with police sirens in the distance.

At the high school, Walt and Skyler attend a PTA meeting concerning the chemistry lab thefts. Seated next to each other, Walt begins to stroke Skyler's thigh under the table. She resists at first but then revels in the erotic moment, which is cut short when Walt is called upon. Later in the parking lot, the two have sex in Walt's car. Skyler wonders why this tryst felt especially good, to which Walt replies because it was illegal.
While a realtor shows Jesse's house to a couple, Walt arrives and looks for Jesse. Walt finds him in the RV, his ribs still bandaged from his run-in with Tuco. Walt hands Jesse his cut from the deal with Tuco, but Jesse is unhappy to learn that the deal requites them to make two more pounds of meth. Jesse mocks Walt's "brilliant business plan," saying that it's almost impossible to procure enough pseudo to produce that much meth.
At a meeting with Dr. Delcavoli, Skyler notes that Walt's color is better and that he has become more sexual since starting his treatment, and expresses interest in alternative therapies. Dr. Delcavoli says they're fine as long as they don't interfere with his treatments.
Walt arranges to meeting with Tuco at a junkyard. When Tuco arrives, he is displeased to learn from Walt that there were "production problems," handing him far less than the two pounds he was expecting. Tuco says he thought Walt was a player, but Walt holds his ground and dares to ask for more money, proposing that Tuco consider it a capital investment. The two men work out a loan at twenty-five percent weekly interest. Walt ups the ante by asking if Tuco wants four pounds instead of two. Tuco agrees but delivers a stern warning: "Talk is talk. But owing me money, that's bad."
Back at his house, Jesse frets that it'll take "two, three hundred boxes of sinus pills" to make four pounds of meth. Walt says they'll produce their own ingredients, but when he hands Jesse a list of chemicals and equipment to buy, Jesse tries to back out. It is after Walt encourages him to believe in himself that Jesse agrees to take on the endeavor.
At a festive baby shower held at the White residence, Skyler is shocked by Marie's gift: an expensive baby tiara. Hank and Walt go out by the pool to share stiff drinks, and Cuban cigars procured by Hank's FBI colleague. As Walt notes how Cuban cigars are illegal, he muses "what's legal, what's illegal [...] it's arbitrary," referencing how alcohol used to be illegal during Prohibition. Hank answers that it goes both ways too; "there's stuff that's legal that shouldn't be," mentioning meth used to be legally sold in pharmacies. That night, Skyler talks about returning Marie's gift. Walt switches the subject to alternative medicine and talks about going to a Navajo sweat lodge for the weekend.
After Walt arrives at Jesse's house, he congratulates Jesse for scoring the supplies, though a key chemical – methylamine – is missing. Jesse has found some professionals who can steal it from a warehouse, but they want $10,000 for the job. Seeing one of Junior's old toys on a shelf in the garage, Walt suggests they steal it themselves.
In Jesse's kitchen, Walt extracts the aluminum powder from Etch-a-Sketch toys, and mixes it with powdered iron oxide to make thermite, which produces a surface temperature high enough to melt through four inches of solid steel, and thus will break any lock that the warehouse is likely to have on its door.
Later, at a jewelry store, Skyler attempts to return the tiara, but instead of getting cash back, she is detained for shoplifting. Skyler tries to explain that the tiara was a gift, but the owner says he's pressing charges. Thinking quickly, Skyler threatens to call the local TV news and fakes going into labor. After bluffing her way out of the store, she angrily phones Marie.
Walt and Jesse make their (slow) getaway with their stolen barrel of methylamine.
That evening, after locking a guard inside a portable toilet, Walt and Jesse break into the warehouse and, despite a few glitches, pull off the heist and steal a drum of methylamine. Unfortunately, the RV fails to start the next day, forcing the duo to cook in Jesse's basement. Even more unfortunate, the realtor has scheduled another open house. Walt tells Jesse to get the visitors to leave while he tries to cook. When one of the buyers insists on inspecting the basement, Jesse pushes him back into the kitchen and announces the house is not for sale anymore.
Meanwhile, Skyler chases down Marie at a women's clothing boutique, asking her why she stole the tiara. Marie denies Skyler's accusations and says she doesn't know what her sister is talking about. When Walt comes home, Skyler explains the situation and criticizes Marie for refusing to admit to her wrongdoing, to which Walt says that people sometimes do things for their families. Skyler asks if that justifies stealing. Walt asks what she would do if it were him, and asks if she would divorce him or turn him into the police. Skyler warns him that "you don't want to find out".
Walt and Jesse react to Tuco's assault.
The following day, Walt and Jesse meet Tuco again at the junkyard. When Tuco becomes curious to know why the meth is blue, Walt tells him that they used a different process. Sampling the product, Tuco is ecstatic about the results. However, when his henchman No-Doze presumes to speak for him, Tuco viciously attacks him, showing Walt and Jesse his bloodied knuckles. The duo look on, horrified by the scene. Finishing up, Tuco laughs and tells a bewildered Walt that he'll see him next week.
