At a Denny's restaurant, a man served his breakfast: bacon, eggs, and hashbrowns. The man breaks his bacon strips in half, then arranges the pieces into the number 52, referencing the White family's birthday tradition. The man is revealed to be Walter White – in deteriorating health and sporting a different pair of glasses, a full head of hair, an unkempt beard and no wedding band. It is a year into the future.
Walt gives a false name and bears a fake ID from New Hampshire. Excusing himself to the bathroom, he meets with Lawson, his previous gun dealer. Exchanging an envelope of cash for a set of keys, Walt asks if Lawson has included instructions; Lawson replies that he printed some pages from the internet. Walt gives his word that "it" won't cross the border. He exits the restaurant and goes to his car to retrieve a duffle bag. Then he locates the car that the keys from Lawson belong to. In the trunk, "it" is revealed to be an M60 machine gun. Walt looks around cautiously, drops his bag with the gun and closes the trunk.
Immediately following the death of Gus and the destruction of the superlab, Walt returns home and disposes of all the evidence linking him to the pipe bomb, then quickly remembers to also throw out the potted Lily of the Valley plant from which he took the toxin used to poison Brock. Skyler and Walt Jr. return shortly after and, although Junior is excited that Gus' death means Hank will be labeled a hero, Skyler warily tells Walt that she is now terrified of him. Walt takes a drink of celebratory whiskey, but suddenly remembers a detail he has overlooked.
Meanwhile, Hank and Gomez survey the charred remains of the superlab, noting that it was identical to the designs found in Gale Boetticher's notebook. Gomez remarks that the bodies found in the ruins – who were shot by Walt – have been burned beyond recognition. Hank discovers the remains of the lab's security camera.
The meeting in the desert
In Mexico, Mike feeds chickens outside the makeshift hospital where he has been recuperating from the shootout with the Cartel. After Barry Goodman informs him of Gus' death, he immediately drives off in a fury. When he crosses paths with Walt and Jesse in the desert, he immediately pulls a gun on Walt but is compelled to stand down by Jesse. The duo asks Mike where Gus kept the footage from the security camera – reminding Mike that footage would implicate all three of them. Meanwhile, Hank is at Los Pollos Hermanos and watches as the laptop is collected as evidence.
Mike fakes a call to the Albuquerque Police, finding out that the laptop has been placed in their evidence room. He tells Walt and Jesse that the laptop is now completely inaccessible and that their best option is to leave the city permanently. Walt suggests that they somehow break into the evidence room, which Mike angrily resists. As they argue, Jesse suggests that they use a giant magnet to destroy the laptop. Acting on this idea, the trio meet with Old Joe at his junkyard to borrow an industrial magnet he uses to move wrecked cars. Mike has doubts about the plan and wants to wash his hands of the situation, but Jesse convinces him the plan can only succeed if the three of them work together. Meanwhile, Saul visits Skyler at the car wash to inform her that Ted had an accident and has just woken up from a coma.
At the junkyard, Walt, Jesse and Mike conduct a preliminary test of by affixing the massive magnet to the interior side of a moving truck, wired to forty-two car batteries. After the magnet is activated, Jesse slowly approaches the truck with a laptop. After a few moments, the proximity to the magnet disables the hard drive on the laptop, then causes the laptop to fly out of Jesse's hands and smash onto the side of the truck. Everyone is equally surprised and elated to see that the test is a success, congratulating Jesse for his idea.
Ted in the hospital
Meanwhile, Skyler visits the hospital and finds Ted, who is being treated for severe head trauma and placed inside a halo brace. Skyler, her face etched with guilt, can hardly find the words of apology she wants to say. Ironically, Ted exhibits the same fear for Skyler that she now has for Walt, having assumed that she had personally sent Huell and Kuby to threaten him. With that in mind, and mentioning that he has a family, he promises to never speak a word about what transpired. Seeing that the situation with Ted is now resolved, Skyler regains her confidence and replies, "Good."
That night, Mike hotwires the gate into the APD parking lot. Walt and Jesse drive the magnet-equipped truck alongside the wall outside the evidence room. The magnet disables the guard's computer, alerting the police. Determined to ensure that the operation will work, Walt cranks the magnet up to its maximum voltage, sending a force so strong it tips the truck over against the wall. Police burst into the evidence room to see all the metallic material stuck to the center of one wall; they head outside to find the truck empty. Walt and Jesse escape with Mike in his car. Mike is doubtful of the ploy's success, but Walt insists that no fingerprints or traceable evidence were left behind. Mike argues why they should be so certain that it worked. Walt, sitting smugly in the backseat, responds: "Because I say so." Mike and Jesse are uneasy with Walt's comment.
The note behind the photo
As police officers clean up the evidence room, they find a smashed picture frame bearing a photo of Gus and Max Arciniega. When they inspect the picture more closely, they find a sheet of paper hidden behind the photo showing a list of account numbers for a bank in the Cayman Islands.
The following day, at Saul's office, Saul tries to explain to Walt why Skyler gave $600,000 to Ted. Walt reprimands Saul for allowing his wife to give such a large amount to a man she was sleeping with. Saul, exasperated by this ungratefulness, lambasts Walt for making him hold onto the ricin cigarette and becoming privy to the poisoning of a child. He attempts to sever all ties, insisting "We're done". However, Walt rises out of his seat and backs Saul into a corner of the office, menacingly telling him, "We're done when I say we're done." That night, Walt returns home to a frightened Skyler and tells her that he knows what happened to Ted, why she did it and that he forgives her. She hesitantly accepts his hug.
According to Vince Gilligan in an interview, their original plan for the outcome of the M60 question was for Walt to use the M60 to save Jesse from Jack's gang. The plan was for Jesse to be arrested, convicted and heading to prison, and Jacks' gang would be on the way to kill him while he was in a prison bus. However, they scrapped the idea because they knew that Walt "wasn't Rambo".[1]

At a test kitchen in Germany, Peter Schuler, an executive for Madrigal Electromotive, glumly tastes a variety of dipping sauces. His secretary interrupts to inform him that the polizei have arrived. On his way to his office, Peter walks through the building's lobby while a large sign for Los Pollos Hermanos being removed by a work crew. With a blank expression on his face, he grabs a nearby automatic defibrillator and locks himself in a bathroom. As the polizei pound on the door, Peter places one of the AED contacts on his chest and the other in his mouth after stripping the wire. He fatally electrocutes himself on the toilet.
Jesse finds the fake Ricin cigarette
Jesse phones Walt in a panic and tells him that the ricin cigarette is still missing, fearing an innocent bystander might find it. After promising to help Jesse look for it, Walt fills a similar vial with salt and creates a duplicate cigarette. He then stashes the real ricin — which he retrieved from Saul — behind a wall outlet cover in his bedroom. Walt then helps Jesse toss his house in search of the cigarette, planting the fake cigarette in Jesse's Roomba for him to find. Devastated, Jesse apologizes for accusing Walt of poisoning Brock. The duo visit Mike and tell him they plan to start cooking again; Mike refuses to partner up, assessing that Walt is a "time bomb" waiting to go off.
Hank, Gomez, and ASAC George Merkert meet with several Madrigal executives, some having flown in from overseas. Among them is Lydia Rodarte-Quayle, an executive from the company's Houston office. The head of Madrigal pledges his company's full cooperation with the DEA. Afterward, Hank and Gomez share a drink with Merkert, who is being quietly pushed out of the agency for his personal relationship with Gus and for failing to heed Hank's warnings about Gus' drug empire. Hank tells Merkert that Gus' laptop was encrypted and thus unlikely to yield much evidence, despite the evidence room debacle. Gomez mentions the Albuquerque Police's discovery of Gus's offshore bank accounts as a possible lead. Merkert mentions how Gus was close to him, yet somebody else completely.
Lydia meets with Mike
Lydia meets with Mike at a diner, handing him a list of eleven men who were on Gus' payroll; she surreptitiously suggests Mike kill them before they can implicate Mike or herself. Mike shoots down the idea, vouching for the integrity of his men — they are paid to stand up to the heat, and they will. Meanwhile, a depressed Skyler refuses to get out of bed. Walt suggests she take a shower to feel better, and she wordlessly obliges; after this eerie absolution, she seems like a shadow of herself.
As he walks into the DEA office downtown, Mike sees Duane Chow, Gus' chemical supplier, exiting from his own interview. Under questioning from Hank and Gomez, Mike states that he worked for Los Pollos Hermanos as head of corporate security. Hank doesn't buy his story but admits he doesn't have enough evidence to arrest him. Mike gets up to leave, only to stop in his tracks when Hank mentions the money held in the name of Mike's granddaughter Kaylee — the only non-Pollos employee listed — in Gus' offshore accounts. Mike denies any knowledge of the accounts, apparently resistant to the agents' pressure even with the knowledge that the DEA has seized his money.
Walt and Jesse visit Saul to discuss finding a new venue for a meth lab, preferably nearby and not in an RV. Saul says an in-town venue will be difficult, but Walt insists that if Gus could do it, they should be able to do it as well. Jesse reports that he was able to find all the precursor chemicals except for methylamine. Walt tells Jesse to keep looking, but doubts he'll be able to scare any up. When Saul advises they pull out of the meth business, Walt shoots him down and claims that he's broke.
Mike kills Chris
Meanwhile, Mike is playing with his granddaughter when Chow calls, saying that the DEA threatened to take his money and that he needs Mike to come talk to home at his home; Mike agrees. Chow hangs up and looks at Chris — one of Mike's former henchmen — who is holding him at gunpoint; Chris kills Chow offscreen. When Mike approaches the front door, Chris puts the muzzle of his gun to the peephole. He hears a strange sound and looks through the peephole, where he sees an animatronic toy belonging to Kaylee suspended from the door frame. Suddenly, Mike appears behind Chris and orders him to drop his gun. Chris admits that Lydia was going to pay him $30,000 to kill Mike and $10,000 for each man on her list, starting with Chow. A disappointed Mike shoots Chris dead.
That night, Mike travels to Houston, sneaks into Lydia's house and pulls her into a bedroom at gunpoint. Lydia begs him to leave her body in the house so that her daughter won't think she was abandoned. On the verge of shooting her, something stops him. Hesitantly, he asks if Lydia can still get her hands on methylamine. Clearly in a corner, and not happy about the decision he's about to make, Mike calls Walt and agrees to a partnership. Walt, satisfied with how things are turning out, washes dishes. Later, he climbs into bed with Skyler, who refuses to face him.
Posing as a paralegal, Mike visits the jail to see Dennis Markowski, the manager of Gus' industrial laundry, accompanied by Dennis's lawyer, Dan Wachsberger. Mike reassures Dennis that the deal he had with Gus is still in place. Dennis swears he's loyal but is fearful that someone else will talk after the feds seized their money. Mike guarantees everyone will be compensated as he's setting up a new operation. Dennis agrees to stay quiet. In the hallway, Mike and Dan go through the list of Mike's guys and where they're being held, planning to visit all of them.
At the White residence, Walt is in high spirits as he unpacks boxes in the bedroom; he has decided to move back in. As he's unpacking, Walt comes across the copy of Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass given to him by Gale Boetticher. Skyler arrives home and, seeing Walt unpacking, apprehensively questions whether this is a good idea. Walt insists that it's the way it should be. Skyler's look of worry intensifies.
Mike waits outside Saul's office while Huell guards the door. Inside, Walt and Jesse assuage Saul's doubts about working with Mike, who once threatened to break Saul's legs. Upon being allowed into the office, Mike lays down ground rules for their new meth operation: he runs the business while Walt and Jesse cover production. Saul privately asks Walt if he's okay with the arrangement, but Walt is unfazed: "He handles the business, and I handle him."
Saul takes the team on a tour of potential lab venues around the city, including a box factory, a tortilla facility, and Lazer Base. Walt, Jesse, and Mike nix them all, spotting logistical problems with each. Jesse and Mike are ready to dismiss the final venue, Vamonos Pest, but Walt, noticing a folded-up fumigation tent on the floor, immediately lights up and declares, "It's perfect."
The new plan to cook meth
The next day, the four watch the Vamonos workers as they tent an infested house. Walt explains his plan: if they cook inside residences undergoing fumigation using a mobile lab apparatus, no one will bother them or investigate strange smells. Saul explains that the Vamonos crew, run by a man named Ira, runs a burglary operation on the side - they copy the homeowners' keys and sell information about the houses' security measures and valuables to other criminals, or come back to burglarize the places themselves. Mike proposes a vote.
Skinny Pete (who is revealed to have a talent with classical piano) and Badger purchase four large equipment cases from a guitar store. While delivering the cases to Vamonos, they ask Jesse to get in on the new business; Jesse — noticing a stern look from Mike — declines. Mike debriefs the Vamonos crew and forbids them from burglarizing houses in which Walt and Jesse conduct their cooking. He also orders them never to engage with the duo without an invitation and to treat them as if they're "ghosts".
At Jesse's house, he and Walt finalize plans for the mobile lab. They are paid an unannounced visit by Andrea and her son Brock. Andrea invites Walt to stay for dinner. Walt sits uncomfortably with Brock on the couch; it's impossible to say if the boy recognizes Walt as the man who poisoned him, but Walt is visibly uncomfortable in the child's presence. Brock glares at Walt but says nothing, turning his attention to a video game.
Walter and Jesse preparing the lab
After the homeowners leave, Walt and Jesse pull up to an infested house in a Vamonos truck. A Vamonos employee, Todd Alquist, approaches Walt and informs him that he has disabled a nanny-cam in the living room. Walt is impressed with Todd's initiative. He and Jesse assemble the lab from the equipment cases and cook in a sealed tent inside the house. During a break, they watch TV and drink beer on the living room couch. Walt manipulates Jesse into ending his relationship with Andrea, implying that he can't continue seeing her if he cannot tell her the truth about his work.
At the car wash, Marie tells Skyler that Hank has returned to work at the DEA. She insists that Skyler plan a party for Walt's upcoming 51st birthday. When Skyler takes out a cigarette, Marie begins to chastise her as she hasn't smoked in years. Skyler, already on edge, is pushed into an emotional breakdown and repeatedly shouts at Marie to shut up. Marie, initially hurt, is soon concerned by the outburst.
As they leave the house, Jesse sets off the fumigation system to finish the pest control work — the thick fog masks any trace of their own production fumes. Upon arriving home, Walt finds a worried Marie waiting for him. Marie recounts Skyler's breakdown and presses Walt to disclose its cause. Walt, cornered and wanting to deflect suspicion, tells her about Skyler's affair with Ted, who is now in the hospital. He begs Marie to keep it a secret and not mention anything to Hank or Skyler. Marie leaves dumbfounded.
Walter, Walter Jr. and Holly watching Scarface
That night, at Jesse's house, Andrea notices Jesse zoning out while she and Brock are playing a video game. Meanwhile, back at the White residence, Skyler finds Walt, Walt Jr. and Holly watching Scarface in the living room. She stares silently but disapprovingly as father and son revel in the movie's violent climax. Hearing her son discuss the violence so nonchalantly, Skyler is unsettled.
The hazard pay erupts an intense discussion between Mike and Walter
Back at the Vamonos office, Mike divides the profit into three piles — $367,000 each. He takes money from each pile to pay for Ira's crew, distribution drivers, as well as "legacy costs" to Mike's men in jail. Walt is outraged that Mike is deducting his money. Jesse, uncomfortable with the confrontation, offers to cover Walt's share. Walt finally relents, insisting he'll pay his own way, but bitterly complaining at his net reduced profit. After Mike leaves, Jesse reports that he has broken up with Andrea. Walt, however, is focused on the money. Bringing up Victor, he surmises that Gus didn't kill him just to send a message.

Walt and Walt Jr. visit an auto repair shop, where a mechanic has made repairs to Walt's Pontiac Aztek. Walt offers to trade the Aztek to the mechanic for $100 and immediately lowers it to $50, which the mechanic eventually accepts. Back at the White residence, Walt arrives in a brand-new black Chrysler 300. With some silent prompting by Walt Jr., he further trades Junior's PT Cruiser for a new Dodge Challenger. Father and son beam at each other as they rev up their engines.
At the Houston office of Madrigal, Lydia anxiously sits at her desk during a conference call with her superiors in Germany. Seconds after receiving a call from Mike, Hank and the DEA arrive to question her. She leads them into a warehouse and directs their attention to the foreman, Ron Forenall, who is promptly arrested. Lydia calls Mike to tell him that the methylamine transport will be cut off due to Ron's arrest. Mike informs her that he will send someone else.
At the White residence, Walt and Junior debate about who between them would win in a drag race while Skyler silently eats. In the bedroom, Walt gives Skyler $20,000 to launder. Realizing that Walt is back in the drug game, Skyler tells him that she wants the kids to leave the house for a period of time. Walt dismisses her concerns, and tells her that he is looking forward to a party and chocolate cake for his 51st birthday the following day.
During breakfast the next day, Skyler seemingly forgets to shape Walt's bacon into "51", in keeping with the White family tradition. When Junior pressures her into doing so, she reluctantly obliges after taking the bacon from Junior's own plate.
At the DEA field office, Hank and Gomez go over a diagram of Gus' drug empire. The agents are concerned that no one in prison is talking and that Blue Sky has reappeared on the streets. Figuring someone is keeping them in line, they decide that Mike is their best lead and agree to follow him. SAC Ramey, visiting from El Paso, enters the room and asks to talk privately to Hank. He offers to promote Hank to the position of ASAC (Assistant Special Agent in Charge) for Albuquerque, but tells him that accepting the promotion will require taking him off the Gus Fring investigation. Hank accepts the promotion.
At a house being treated by Vamonos Pest, Walt and Jesse break down their mobile lab. Walt leaves early for his birthday party. When he arrives home, he is disappointed to see Skyler preparing a store-bought meal. Meanwhile, while driving to the White residence, Hank pesters Marie until she reveals that Walt told her about Skyler's affair. As the four sit down for dinner, Skyler continues to be silent and sullen. Walt makes a speech about how grateful he is for the family's support during the past year. As he's talking, Skyler slowly walks into the pool and sinks to the bottom, apparently an attempted suicide. Walt dives in after her.
Jesse arrives at the Madrigal warehouse in Houston, sent to retrieve a barrel of methylamine from a hesitant Lydia. While Jesse is lowering the barrel with a forklift, Lydia finds a GPS device attached to the bottom. Meanwhile, at the White residence, Walt, Hank, and Marie sit down to talk after Skyler is taken to bed. Marie and Hank offer to take Junior and Holly for a short time, divulging that this is Skyler's idea; Walt reluctantly agrees. After the Schraders leave, Walt confronts Skyler in their bedroom. Skyler demands that the kids stay away from the house as long as Walt continues engaging in his criminal activity. Walt challenges her to explain her plan to keep them away from home, shooting down each of her ideas. Skyler admits while she isn't as good at coming up with schemes as Walt is, she does have one option left: to bide her time and wait for Walt's cancer to return.
The next morning, Jesse tells Walt and Mike about the GPS tracker. Mike, thinking that the DEA would be too sloppy by leaving the tracker in an easy place to find, assumes Lydia put it there herself in a bid to get out of their business. Mike prepares to leave, intending to kill her, but Jesse insists they vote on it. Asked for his opinion, Walt tells them that the cooks must not stop under any circumstances. Shortly afterward, in the parking lot, Jesse gives Walt a new TAG Heuer Monaco Chronograph watch for his birthday. Returning home, Walt presents the watch to Skyler and tells her how Jesse wanted to kill him a few weeks prior but came around; he says she will come around too. That night, Walt falls asleep to the watch's ticking.
An adolescent boy, Drew Sharp, rides through the desert on a dirtbike. He stops to play with a tarantula, which he then places into a jar. When he gets back on his bike, Drew hears a freight train in the distance and rides off to follow it.
Walt visits Hank in his new office at the DEA, where Hank remarks on Walt's expensive new watch. As they talk, Walt breaks down in crocodile tears, stating that Skyler no longer loves him and thinks he's a bad father. Uncomfortable with displays of emotion, Hank quickly excuses himself to ostensibly fetch a cup of coffee. With Hank gone as he had intended, Walt plants an ethernet tracking device in Hank's computer and a receiver within a family picture frame on his desk.
Mike giving Lydia instructions
In Houston, Lydia is taken into the basement of an abandoned building by Walt, Jesse and Mike. Mike forces her to call the DEA to sort out the origins of the tracker, supplying her with a prepared script. Listening in to Hank's phone communications, the trackers are revealed to have not come from the Albuquerque field office. Mike and Walt vote to kill Lydia, despite her insisting that she hasn't crossed them. Just as Mike approaches her, the bug picks up a call from the Houston field office confirming to Hank that they placed the trackers, vindicating Lydia. Eager to prove useful to the group, she tells them that they can find an "ocean" of methylamine in the form of a rail-based shipment that passes through New Mexico every week.
Lydia demands a percentage of the profit after providing key transport details for stealing the methylamine, including the exact position of the tanker car carrying it in the freight train's configuration. Mike is skeptical of their ability to complete the heist without killing the locomotive crew, which he thinks is the only viable way to get away "clean".
At the Schrader house, Hank and Marie play with Holly while Walt Jr., again calling himself "Flynn", sullenly refuses to socialize with them. Meanwhile, at Jesse's house, Mike and Walt argue about how to produce meth without methylamine; Mike proposes temporarily using pseudoephedrine, but Walt wants to halt production until they acquire methylamine. The discussion becomes heated, with Walt accusing Mike of being content to merely scrape together the hazard pay for his jailed associates, and Mike in turn suggesting that Walt is hesitant to go through with the train heist. Jesse interjects with an idea: what if they can steal the methylamine and no one realized that the train was robbed?
In McKinley County, Mike, Jesse, Walt, and Todd measure 800 feet of railroad track, the length to reach the tanker car carrying methylamine, finding that the length aligns perfectly with a small trestle; the operation can be completed and be well-hidden from the train's crew. Two plastic chemical drums are buried near the trestle. Todd fills one with water, its weight approximately nine-tenths of the weight of the methylamine they intend to steal, and the other remains empty. The plan is to replace the methylamine with water as the tanker drains, giving the appearance that the Chinese supplier watered down the product, and covering up any indications of theft. Walt and Jesse stress to Todd that no one is to ever know that the heist occurred.
Back at the White residence, Walt comes home to find that Junior has returned and is refusing to come out of his room until he is told what is going on. Wanting to win Skyler over, Walt curtly tells Junior to return to the Schrader house. After Junior leaves, Skyler insists that she will never change her mind about Walt, and negotiates a deal with him: if he agrees to keep the children away from the house while he's engaging in the drug business, she'll launder his proceeds and act as his accomplice without question. Noticing the dirt on his pants, she asks: "Out burying bodies?" He replies: "Robbing a train."
Jesse during the train heist
On the day of the heist, Kuby blocks the railroad crossing with a dump truck, causing the train to screech to a halt. Mike signals to Walt when the crew leave the locomotive to assist Kuby. Jesse scrambles under the tanker car with a hose and begins siphoning methylamine into the empty tank, while at the same time Todd climbs atop the tanker car with another hose. When a meter indicates that over 300 gallons of methylamine has been siphoned into the first tank, Walt turns on a compressor to pump the water from the second tank.
Jesse, Todd and Walt moments before Todd shoots Drew Sharp
The plan appears to be working until a good samaritan offers to push Kuby's truck off the tracks; Mike warns Walt to wrap things up. Walt waits until the last possible moment to finish the operation, forcing Todd to jump off the moving train and Jesse to lay down flat on the tracks, beneath the train. As the train leaves, Walt, Jesse, and Todd celebrate their flawless heist. However, the mood dampens when the three see Drew Sharp, who has witnessed everything. Without warning, Todd pulls out a gun and shoots the boy dead as Jesse yells in protest.
At Vamonos Pest, Mike, Walt, and Todd unload equipment from the train heist. In stunned silence, they unload and dismantle Drew Sharp's motorbike, placing the pieces in a large barrel and dissolving them with hydrochloric acid. They then prepare a barrel for Drew's body. After the grim deed, Jesse smokes outside, anger etched in his face. When Todd joins him and tries to make conversation by remarking that "shit happens," Jesse punches him in the face.
Todd argues his case to Walt, Mike, and Jesse, pointing out that they had insisted on there being no witnesses to the heist. The three men dismiss Todd and discuss his future in their operation. Jesse, appalled by Todd's actions, wants him gone. Walt goes over three options: fire Todd, bearing in mind that he would probably need to be paid for his silence; killing him, which all three men are unwilling to do; and demoting him to his prior work with Vamonos, which would keep him close and in the business as a precaution. While Jesse prefers to fire Todd, Mike and Walt vote to keep him on. Mike delivers the news to Todd, but also threatens him against behaving recklessly again.
Mike at the park
At a park with his granddaughter, Mike is watched by Agents Gomez and Van Oster. Before he leaves, Mike scribbles and hides a note under a nearby garbage can. The DEA agents debate whether to follow Mike or wait for someone to pick up what they assume to be a dead drop. Gomez approaches the note to investigate and finds that it reads: "Fuck You."
Back at his house, Mike listens to a bugged recording from Hank's office in which the DEA agents talk about tailing him until he makes an incriminating mistake. Meanwhile, at the Schrader residence, Skyler visits Holly and breaks into tears, telling her sister that she misses her children but needs them to stay safe, vaguely telling Marie that she and Walt are bad parents and that she is keeping painful secrets. Marie begs her sister to come clean anyway. Just as Skyler is poised to confess everything, Marie divulges that Walt told her about Skyler's affair. Skyler realizes that her husband has framed her as the source of their conflict but withholds her anger from Marie.
Jesse finds out about Drew's disappearance on TV
At a house being bug-bombed by Vamonos, Walt and Jesse watch TV as they wait for their current batch of meth to cook. Their program is interrupted by a news report on Drew Sharp's disappearance, which hits Jesse with a wave of grief. Walt, seeing how distraught he is, offers to finish up the cook while Jesse goes home. Whilst leaving, Jesse is unsettled when he overhears Walt whistling, seemingly unaffected by what happened with Drew. He receives a phone call from Mike as he walks out.
When he delivers the batch to the Vamonos office, Walt is informed that Mike must leave their meth operation due to being followed by the DEA. Walt is taken aback but has no choice but to accept. Jesse, who is also present, tells Walt that he is exiting the drug business as well; he and Mike are selling their shares of the methylamine to Mike's contact in Phoenix for $5 million each. Jesse pleads with Walt to join them, insisting it is no longer safe and that he should be content with making $5 million. Walt declines, explaining that cooking the methylamine would net up to $300 million.
The buyout
The next day, Mike and Jesse meet with the Phoenix contact, Declan, to discuss the sale of the methylamine. He refuses to buy two-thirds of the lot as the price is too high, and instead demands to buy the whole lot in order to remove Blue Sky from competition and increase his own market share.
Jesse visits Walt's house and urges him to join the sale. Walt stands firm and explains his reason: years previously, he sold his 50% stake in Gray Matter Technologies for $5,000; his former partners in the company are now billionaires, and Walt has spent the years since blaming himself for having forgone the money his family would have otherwise been entitled to. Walt states that he isn't in the "meth" or the "money" business; he is in the empire business. Jesse questions whether a "meth empire" is something to be proud of. Skyler returns home and is startled by Jesse's presence. Walt insists that he stay over for dinner, to which she reluctantly accepts. The three have an extremely uncomfortable meal, ending when Skyler jeers at Walt for telling Marie about her affair. After she leaves the table, Walt admits that Skyler removed their children from the house and is waiting for his cancer to kill him. He says the meth business is all he has left and admonishes Jesse for wanting to take it away from him.
Later that night, Walt drives to Vamonos Pest to remove the methylamine, only to find Mike already there. Mike plans on detaining Walt for the entire night until he can sell all 1,000 gallons of methylamine for $15 million, without Walt's permission. At daybreak, Walt is zip-tied to a radiator so Mike can run an errand. Walt manages to escape by chewing through the percolator's power cord and uses the wires to burn through the tie, injuring his wrist in the process.
During Mike's "errand", he and Saul inform the DEA that they have filed a restraining order pertaining to the surveillance. In Saul's car, he and Mike listen to Hank and Gomez plan their next steps. Saul informs Mike that he has at most about twenty-four hours of freedom, which Mike says is enough for what he needs. However, upon returning to the garage, he finds the methylamine gone. Finding Jesse and a smug Walt in the office, Mike angrily pulls out his gun and puts it to Walt's head. Jesse desperately urges him to listen to a plan Walt has come up with, in which Walt gets his methylamine while Jesse and Mike get their buyout. When Mike asks if this is true, Walt replies: "Everybody wins."


In the desert, Walt addresses Declan and his henchmen about the methylamine deal he had previously arranged with Mike and Jesse. Declan is not pleased to hear that Walt is keeping the methylamine for himself. Walt offers to continue cooking Blue Sky, explaining that the difference in quality between his and Declan's product means Walt's product attains a higher yield, which means he has more control over price and by extension a higher profit margin. He offers Declan the chance to buy out Mike's share and oversee Walt's distribution network, guaranteeing that they will make more money than if Declan produced meth on his own. To reinforce his point, Walt demands that Declan "say his name"; Declan resignedly acknowledges Walt as "Heisenberg". The scene ends with Walt (now Heisenberg) saying “you're god damn right”.
At Vamonos Pest, Mike takes his $5 million from Declan and bids farewell to Walt and Jesse, the latter of whom he advises to watch out for himself. As they share a last handshake, Walt glares at them from behind a window. Afterward, Walt and Jesse retrieve the methylamine from the car wash. Skyler begs to be informed what's going on; Walt tells her to just ignore their actions because he has everything under control.
Dan Wachsberger delivering money to Gus' former employees
Dan Wachsberger deposits the hazard pay to Gus' former men at Craddock Marine Bank. These include $15,000 into nine safety deposit boxes and a much larger sum into a tenth that's filled to the brim. In the parking lot, Mike thanks Dan and asks if he'll continue with the remaining funds for the nine families; Dan reassures him that he will.
Later, after hearing through the bug that Hank has secured a search warrant for his house, Mike dumps his surveillance gear and firearms into an old well in the desert. He then hides a duffel bag in the trunk of a second car and leaves it in a long-term parking lot at the airport, hiding the keys nearby. At home, Mike makes a cup of coffee and waits for the DEA to arrive with the search warrant, personally served by a gloating Hank. He watches The Big Heat as they search his residence and find nothing, much to Hank's chagrin.
Walt tries to convince Jesse that there will be no more violence
At Vamonos Pest, Jesse tries to talk to Walt about getting his $5 million so he can leave the drug business. Walt initially pretends as if Jesse isn't leaving, offering to let him set up his own cooking operation. When he still insists on leaving, Walt changes tack and tells Jesse he has nothing else in his life and will turn to drugs again. He acknowledges Jesse's guilt over Drew Sharp's murder and takes offense when Jesse questions whether he feels the same way. Jesse asks how many people will die because of them, and calls out Walt's manipulative promises that no one else will get hurt. He finally gives up and leaves, saying he no longer cares about getting his share of the money. Walt, angered at his slipping control over Jesse, yells after him that he will get nothing.
At a DEA staff meeting, Hank is chastised by SAC Ramey for allowing the Gus Fring investigation to distract him from other cases, ordering him to drop the tail on Mike. Hank and Gomez decide to divert their attention to Dan. Meanwhile, Walt and Todd prepare to cook in a bug-bombed house. Todd attentively takes notes and seems to give his full effort. Walt clearly misses Jesse, but realizes that Todd is performing well as his new assistant. When Walt wants to talk money, more so in an effort to boast and impress, Todd refuses a salary until he better knows what he's doing.
Dan deposits more hazard pay at the bank, but is soon intercepted by Gomez and the DEA. At the White residence, Walt attempts to have a microwave dinner with Skyler, who immediately walks out of the room. The next day, he visits Hank's office with another bout of crocodile tears, pretending that he is distraught about his marriage. Hank again fidgets and is relieved when Walt asks for coffee. Walt quickly removes the bug and the ethernet tracking device], as per Mike's last command, before Hank returns. Gomez calls Hank out of the office, excited to report that Dan has flipped on Mike. An eavesdropping Walt is alarmed.
While visiting the park with Kaylee, Mike receives a call from Dan inquiring his whereabouts. Mike gives his location and hangs up, but is clearly uneasy. Seconds later, Walt calls and tells Mike that Dan has flipped; the police are coming for him at that moment. Seeing a police car pull up across the park, Mike is torn between whether to say goodbye to Kaylee and be arrested or to escape the police and leave her for good. As a second police car appears, he reluctantly decides to flee, presumably leaving behind his granddaughter at the playground.
Saul, Jesse and Walt talking to Mike via cellphone
Mike calls Saul's office and asks for Saul to retrieve his duffel bag from the airport. Saul refuses, speculating that he is being watched since the DEA know he is Mike's lawyer. Jesse immediately offers to help, but Mike refuses as he doesn't want him caught. Finally, Walt agrees to do it. Upon reaching the airport, Walt looks inside the bag — it contains some bundles of cash, a passport, and a handgun in a holster.
Walt and Mike meet next to a riverbank. Walt demands that Mike tell him the names of his nine men before he gives up his bag. Mike refuses and calmly wrenches the bag out of Walt's hand. Walt sarcastically asks for gratitude, leading to a heated argument where both men trade recriminations for the way things have unfolded. Mike gets into his car while Walt, stewing, retrieves something from his Chrysler. Just as Mike discovers that his gun is missing, Walt walks up to his car and shoots him through the window. Mike attempts to drive away but crashes into a nearby rock. Walt is left agape, realizing what he has just done, then runs over only to find the car empty. Following bloody footprints, he finds Mike calmly sitting next to the river. Walt realizes he could have gotten the names from Lydia and apologizes; Mike tells Walt to "shut the fuck up and let me die in peace." The two watch the river in silence until Mike dies and slumps over.
At Vamonos Pest, Walt is observing a fly when Todd informs him that he has disposed of Mike's car. The two open Walt's trunk, where Mike's body is being kept. As they prepare to dissolve the body in acid, Jesse enters and asks if Mike got the money and escaped. Walt avoids giving a direct answer, saying only that he is "gone." Jesse suggests a vote to decide what happens with Mike's men, but Walt tells Jesse that, having quit, he no longer has a vote and Walt will handle them himself. He ushers Jesse out of the garage with a stern glare. The door descends between them.
At Metropolitan Detention Center, Hank rejects a proposed plea deal for Dennis. Meanwhile, at a cafe, Lydia defensively refuses to give Walt the names of Mike's men and the now-incarcerated lawyer who paid their families. She states that she has not written the names down and will only divulge them after her safety is assured. Eager to be of further use to Walt, she proposes a new business plan which involves selling Blue Sky in the Czech Republic, using her connections with Madrigal. After negotiating a 30% commission of their joint business, Lydia gives him the names. After she leaves, Walt lifts his pork pie hat off the table and reveals a hidden ricin capsule, implying that he had intended to kill Lydia before accepting her offer.
Walter at home during the assassination of Gus' former employees
Walt meets with Todd's uncle, Jack Welker, and his neo-Nazi gang. They debate the logistics of killing ten inmates within a two-minute window inside three separate prisons. The next day, Walt paces around his house watching the seconds pass on his watch, while his targets — including Dan, Dennis, Ron Forenall, Andrew Holt, Jack McGann, William Moniz — are shanked, strangled, or burned alive by Jack's imprisoned associates. Walt receives a call from Jack confirming that "it's done". Hank is pulled from a public appearance by Gomez and given the news.
Three days later, Walt visits the Schrader residence and shares a drink with Hank, who feels dejected from the prison murders. Hank reminisces about his first job in college, which involved walking around forests and tagging trees that were slated for logging. He wonders if that job was better than his current one, which he describes as "chasing monsters."
Skyler reveals Walter's accomplishment to him
Walt and Todd resume cooking meth, delivering shipments to Declan and Lydia, the latter of whom exports it to the Czech Republic. Over a period of three months, they perform several cooks in various bug-bombed houses while Skyler launders the drug proceeds and Saul watches the wires. During a visit to her children at the Schrader house, Skyler watches as Holly takes her first assisted steps. Marie makes a comment to Skyler that she and Hank feel they might be "enabling" her and Walt during their marriage troubles. She suggests to Skyler that it might be time for her and Walt to reunite with the children at their own home, in order to heal as a family.
Later that night, Skyler takes Walt to a storage unit she has rented, showing him a gigantic pile of cash that she has created out of his proceeds. She admits that she had been unable to launder or count it all, and asks how big the pile as to be before she is allowed to see her children again. Walt is taken aback by the amount of money he is collected.
Jesse receives an unexpected visit
When Walt goes to the hospital for his routine MRI, he visits the bathroom and notices the paper towel dispenser he punched after receiving news of his remission. He then drops by Jesse's house. In a tense exchange in which Jesse is distrustful of Walt's intent, they reminisce about their old RV. Before he leaves, Walt tells Jesse that he left something for him. Jesse hesitantly edges toward two large duffel bags on his porch and, to his relief, finds they contain the $5 million he is owed. Upon moving the bags inside, he takes out his pistol and switches the safety back on; it is implied he anticipated that Walt would kill him. Returning home, Walt announces that he's "out". Skyler realizes he is telling the truth.
Hank discovers Walter's secret
That weekend, the Whites and the Schraders happily gather around the table beside the pool. Hank excuses himself to use the bathroom. As he sits on the toilet, he looks around for reading material and comes across Walt's copy of Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass. He thumbs to the front of the book and finds an inscription in a familiar handwriting: "To my other favorite W.W. It's an honour working with you. Fondly, G.B." Hank recalls his discussion of Gale Boetticher's lab notes with Walt, finally coming to the uneasy realization that his brother-in-law was "Heisenberg" all along.
