In a rural village in Mexico, men and women crawl on their bellies up a dusty, adobe-lined desert road. A Mercedes sedan stops alongside the procession. Two men exit the car; both wear expensive suits and cowboy boots tipped with silver skulls. The men begin to crawl with the others. The procession winds to a candlelit shrine to Santa Muerte, a Mexican folk deity representing death. The two men rise to their feet. One makes an offering, while the other pins something to the shrine: a crude sketch of Heisenberg.
Walt tries to burn his money
In Albuquerque, coverage of the Wayfarer 515 disaster dominates the news. In the week since the crash, Donald Margolis has been identified as the air traffic controller who, distracted by grief over his daughter's recent death, allowed the airliner to collide with a charter plane in midair. At the pool behind the White residence, a contrite Walt — fully aware of his culpability in the crash — dumps his drug money onto an outdoor grill and sets it ablaze. Seconds later, he second-guesses his decision and hurls the flaming grill into the pool. His robe sleeve having caught fire, he too jumps in after.
Meanwhile, Skyler meets with a divorce attorney who advises her that maintaining residence in the house will strengthen her position in a child custody case. Skyler explains that Walt is moving out that day. Questioned about the family's finances, Skyler momentarily freezes. "You'd be amazed what I've seen partners hide from one another," the lawyer says.
Hank helps Walt move out
Hank visits the house to help with the move just as Walt fishes the last of the cash — and the plastic eyeball belonging to the pink teddy bear from the crash — out of his pool. Wrestling a duffel bag full of drug money away from his brother-in-law, Hank asks, "What have you got in there? Cinder blocks?" After a thought, Walt replies, "Half a million in cash". Hank laughs, assuming that Walt is joking.
Jesse learning self-acceptance at rehab
At the Serenity rehab center, Jesse participates in a group therapy session in which the group leader states that self-acceptance and self-improvement as essential to transformation. The next day, Walt calls home from his new apartment. Walt Jr. picks up the phone and complains that no one is telling him what is going on between his parents. Over Skyler's objections, he arranges for Walt to drive him to school. Later, Walt receives a one-word text: "POLLOS."
The school assembly
At J. P. Wynne High School, a student assembly is called to discuss the recent tragedy. Walt is visibly uncomfortable as a student describes finding the remains of a crash victim on his lawn. Noticing this, Carmen encourages Walt to express himself. He tries to assuage his guilt by telling his increasingly incredulous audience to "look on the bright side" of what happened, using the higher death toll from the Tenerife disaster to suggest that the Wayfarer crash wasn't so bad by comparison. Carmen, finding his words inappropriate, cuts his speech short.
The Cousins
Outside a dilapidated desert farmhouse, the two men approach a clothesline. A young girl and her parents watch as the men exchange their suits for common workclothes, keeping only their guns and their cowboy boots. They deposit the keys to their Mercedes on a goat's horn and walk away.
Junior confronts his mom
When Walt drives Junior home, his son asks why he doesn't come into the house. Inside, Junior angrily lashes out at Skyler, under the impression that she is persecuting Walt. Marie, who is present, reasons that Junior is anxious to learn why his parents have separated, which she wants to know herself. Skyler tells Marie that she needs to be supportive without prying.
During another group therapy session, a despondent Jesse — blaming himself for Jane's death as well as the plane crash — asks the group leader, "Have you ever really hurt anybody?" He is shocked when the group leader admits that he accidentally killed his own daughter while intoxicated. "How do you not hate yourself?" asks Jesse. "I did, for many years," admits the group leader. But guilt and self-hate, he explains, stand in the way of true change.
Skyler visits Walt at his apartment and surprises him with divorce papers. When he resists, she bluntly accuses him of being a drug dealer. Drawing his connection with Jesse, she infers that Walt has been paying for his medical treatment by dealing marijuana. Shocked at how much she has figured out, Walt reluctantly admits that he cooks methamphetamine. Refusing to hear Walt's rationalizations, Skyler promises not to tell Hank or anyone else what Walt is doing — but only if he grants the divorce and stays away from the family. She hurriedly leaves.
A preoccupied Walt picks up Jesse at rehab
After Walt picks up Jesse from rehab, Jesse intimates that he is responsible for Jane's death and, by extension, the plane crash. Walt tries to make Jesse not blame himself for the tragedy, listing off a host of minor factors that he insists contributed more to the crash. "You either run from things, or you face them," Jesse replies. He's learned to accept about himself what Walt cannot: "I'm the bad guy."
Walt and Gus at Los Pollos Hermanos
Walt visits Los Pollos Hermanos and meets with Gus. Despite his great respect for Gus, Walt has decided to stop cooking meth. In response, Gus offers Walt $3 million for three months of his work. Walt still declines, stating that his family means more to him than any money he can make from continuing in the drug trade.
Meanwhile, hidden amid a farm truck's bales of straw, the two men sit with a group of undocumented immigrants being smuggled across the U.S.-Mexico border. A young man brags to the men about painting cars for gangsters in Michoacan, but quickly clams up when he notices the skulls on their boots. Hearing gunshots in the back, the truck driver stops to investigate. He flees when the men emerge from the back in the truck, and is subsequently shot in the back. The two men then set the truck and its murdered passengers ablaze. They silently walk away as the vehicle explodes.
  
As he drives to work, Walt listens to the song "A Horse with No Name" on his car radio. He is pulled over by an Albuquerque police officer, who writes him a ticket for driving with a cracked windshield. Walt tries to explain that the car was damaged by debris from the Wayfarer 515 crash, but to no avail. An increasingly agitated Walt rants about his ordeal, ignoring the officer's instructions to calm down. Moments later, he is thrust into a patrol car, his eyes swollen by pepper spray.
Walt under arrest
At the DEA field office, Hank briefs his team on the truck explosion on the border, speculating that the mass murder was "high-end cartel work." He receives a call from the Albuquerque Police. When Hank picks Walt up at the police station, Walt apologizes to the arresting officer and tells Hank that Skyler is refusing to let him see his kids.
Meanwhile, Jesse notices that his former house is for sale. Stopping to take a closer look, he runs into his father, who describes the extensive improvements they have made to the property, but demurs at giving Jesse a tour. When his father appears unenthused at inviting him for dinner, a hurt Jesse leaves.
Saul visits Walt at his apartment, where Walt admits that Skyler now knows that he is cooking meth. Saul tries to assure Walt that she will not turn him in to the authorities, as she and the rest of the family would have just as much to lose from Walt's arrest as Walt himself. Walt refuses to return to cooking, stating that all he cares about is the family he has now lost. After leaving the apartment, Saul contacts Mike and tells him they have a problem that needs monitoring.
At the White residence, Walt Jr. angrily confronts Skyler for preventing Walt from seeing him, claiming to have seen him in a depressed state at school. After he storms off, Hank questions Skyler on whether she has a right to keep Walt from the kids, to which she states that the matter is none of his business. After they leave the dinner, Hank speculates to Marie that Skyler separated from Walt because he had an affair. Marie doubts this, however, saying that Skyler would have confided in her by now if that were the case.
The Cousins visit Don Hector
Jesse visits Saul, who hands over the money he's been holding for Jesse since he went into rehab. As Saul complains about Walt refusing to return to meth cooking, Jesse enlists him for carrying out a different job. Meanwhile, the two men responsible for the truck explosion – Marco and Leonel Salamanca – visit their uncle Hector Salamanca, who has been sent to a retirement home after Tuco's death. One slowly draws his fingers across a Ouija board while the other records the letters that prompt Hector to ring his bell. Slowly, the three men spell out a name: WALTER WHITE.
Skyler and Ted discuss bookkeeping irregularities
At Beneke Fabricators, Skyler confronts Ted over cooking his company's books, asking what he would do if his children found out. In response, Ted hopes they would understand that he did it for their sake, only attempting to keep his head above water. Skyler ponders his answer in silence. Meanwhile, Junior shows up at Walt's apartment with a packed bag. Though pleased to see him, Walt calls Skyler and arranges to drive him home. On the way there, he tells his dejected son that his mother has her reasons for the current arrangement.
Saul meets with Jesse's parents and their lawyer about purchasing the house on behalf of an unnamed client. Their price is $875,000, but Saul stuns them with his counteroffer of $400,000 in cash. As they are about to leave, Saul blindsides them with knowledge that they have feloniously neglected to the divulge the existence of the basement meth lab in their disclosure statement, threatening to encumber the property with a lawsuit if they do not capitulate.
Walt throwing pizza onto the roof of the White residence.
Walt arrives home with Junior — and a family-sized take-out pizza — but Skyler won't let him enter the house despite his pleas. When she shuts the door in his face, a frustrated Walt hurls the pizza onto the roof of the garage and drives away.
The next morning, Walt wakes up face-down on the floor of his apartment as Skyler leaves an angry voicemail complaining about the pizza on her roof, threatening to get a restraining order if he doesn't control himself.
Meanwhile, Jesse's parents are moving the last of their things out of the house when they spot Jesse's car pulling up. Jesse walks towards the house, ignoring his parents' protests. They insist he has to leave — the new owners are on their way. They are shocked to learn that Jesse is the new owner of the house, having used Saul to blackmail them into selling the property. Jesse enters the house and shuts the door in their faces without another word.
At the behest of Saul, Mike installs surveillance equipment in the rear of the White residence. Walt arrives at the house, his Aztek loaded with belongings, but discovers that Skyler has changed the locks. Seeing Walt break in through the crawl space, Mike heads back to his car. However, Mike notices another car pulling up; Marco and Leonel step out and, with a large mirror-polished silver axe in hand, enter Walt's house. Mike makes a quick phone call to Victor, who standing alongside Gus at an industrial laundry.
The Cousins waiting Walt in the White residence
Marco and Leonel sit on Walt's bed, waiting for Walt to get out of the shower. One of them notices the plastic eyeball from the pink teddy bear among Walt's belongings and idly examines it before tossing it back into the suitcase. As Walt finishes his shower and dries himself, Marco receives a text message bearing a single word: "POLLOS." He shows Leonel the text and the two exchange a look. When Walt enters the bedroom, the Cousins have vanished. Walt immediately notices the misplaced eyeball and suspects he's not alone. He looks around the house, unaware just how close he was to death.
In a flashback sequence, Hank's DEA informant, Tortuga, holds court at a seedy Mexican cantina. He receives a birthday present — a large tortoise — from "El Jefe," his boss. Tortuga is delighted with the gift until the boss writes "HOLA DEA" on the reptile's back. The Cousins step out of a back room; one holds Tortuga down as the other cuts off his head with a machete.
Mike, watching Walt from outside his house after the Cousins' clandestine visit, phones Gus to report that he is still alive. Meanwhile, Skyler arrives home to find Walt inside the house. She threatens to call the police, but Walt insists that he is staying. Skyler dials 9-1-1 and asks the dispatcher to send officers immediately. Recalling Saul's advice, Walt stays calm and grades school papers as he waits for the police to arrive.
Returning home, Walt Jr. is elated to see his father and is outraged when he learns that his mother called the cops on him. Skyler tells one of the officers that Walt is trespassing but learns because she has not legally separated or divorced from Walt, that Walt has not behaved violently, and that his name is on the lease of the house, he is within his rights to stay. When the officer asks Skyler if Walt has broken any laws, she can't bring herself to respond. When the police leave without arresting Walt, she coldly welcomes him home.
Jesse listening to Jane's voice
Jesse sits alone on the floor in his empty house, calling Jane's old cell phone number to hear her voice on the voicemail greeting. Saul pays Jesse a visit, asking him to convince Walt to begin cooking again. Jesse agrees to try, then shows him the door. After Saul departs, Jesse resumes dialing Jane's number.
An unenthused Hank reveals to Gomez that he is wanted back in El Paso. Meanwhile, the Cousins escort Hector Salamanca to a meeting with Gus and Juan Bolsa, Tortuga's former boss. Bolsa explains how Hector's nephew, Tuco, who Hector raised as his own son and who took over Hector's business, died because of Walt's betrayal. The Cousins demand the right to exact vengeance against Walt on Tuco's behalf. However, Gus requests that they postpone vengeance until his business with Walt is concluded. Privately, Bolsa warns Gus to finish the business with Walt quickly or risk losing the cartel's favor. As for the Cousins, Bolsa can't guarantee they'll listen to him and delay their revenge.
Walt, sleeping on the floor of Holly's bedroom, wakes up when he hears his daughter crying in Skyler's room. Walt asks if he can come in and help, but Skyler doesn't respond. When he asks to use her bathroom, she remains silent. Frustrated, Walt urinates in the kitchen sink. Later, Skyler updates her divorce lawyer about Walt's return home. The lawyer encourages Skyler to give her all of the facts, reminding Skyler that attorney-client privilege ensures the confidentiality of anything she discloses. After contemplating, Skyler admits that Walt is a meth cook. Skyler's lawyer encourages her to immediately sue for divorce, but Skyler expresses reluctance, reasoning that she doesn't want her son to find out that his father is a criminal when Walt may eventually die from his cancer anyway.
At a dive bar, Hank tells Gomez that errands and packing are delaying his return to El Paso. Hank fights back an anxiety attack in the bathroom, then leaves to stash his gun in his SUV. Returning to the bar, Hank picks a fight with two "dirt-balls," repeatedly bashing one man's head against the floor before finally identifying himself as DEA.
A forlorn Jesse repeatedly calls Jane's voicemail until he hears a new message that her number is no longer in service. He is crushed at the loss of the very last remnants he has of Jane. The next morning, Jesse drives the RV into the desert, determined to start cooking again. Meanwhile, at home, Walt leaves a duffel bag stuffed with cash in full view. He asks Skyler if they can talk when she discovers it.
At DEA field office, Gomez tells Hank that ASAC Merkert wants to see him. As far as Merkert knows, the suspects attacked Hank while Gomez was outside, calling for backup. Gomez tells Hank that he didn't mention in his report "that you left your gun under the car seat before you went back inside."
Back at home, Walt reasons with Skyler that this money will put their kids through college and cover the mortgage and other expenses after he's gone, something she could never afford on a part time bookkeeping salary. Skyler glowers at Walt accusingly, listens to him, but utters not a word.
At Beneke Fabricators, Skyler approaches Ted in the breakroom and seductively touches his shoulder. They kiss surreptitiously, after which Skyler asks whether his kids are home. When Skyler returns to the White residence that evening, Junior and Louis Corbett are watching TV while Walt cooks a pot-roast. Walt is eager to hear how she feels, after their talk. Skyler coldly tells him that, "I fucked Ted"—her only course of revenge. Skyler calls the boys down to dinner, leaving a wounded Walt standing speechless in the kitchen.
At a desert gas station, Jesse fills up the RV. Realizing that he's short on cash, he tries to charm the cashier girl into taking blue meth as payment instead. Just then, a police officer enters the store, after which Jesse piles on the pressure for her to take the deal. As the officer gets to the counter behind Jesse, she finally relents and takes the meth.
Walt tries to break Ted's office window.
Mike visits Saul and plays an audio recording of Walt and Skyler's bitter argument over her affair with Ted. Later, Walt heads to Beneke Fabricators to confront Ted, who refuses to see him. As a mortified Skyler and her co-workers watch, Walt tries and fails to throw a huge potted plant through a window into Ted's office. Three men arrive and toss Walt out the front door. Seconds later, Mike drives up in his car and whisks Walt away.
At his office, Saul stages what he calls an "intervention" for Walt. Wondering how Saul knew where to find him, Walt realizes that Saul had his house bugged. When Saul admits he did and provocatively gives a crude description of Skyler's affair, Walt tackles him to the ground. Walt angrily tells Saul he is fired while Saul tells Walt that he will no longer launder Walt's drug money through his son's website.
At Walt's insistence, Mike removes the bugs from his house. Before he leaves, Mike notices a drawing of a scythe drawn on the street outside of the house, presumably left by the Cousins.
At Walt's high school, Carmen calls Walt into her office to discuss his absenteeism and his erratic behavior in class. Walt awkwardly tries to make a pass at Carmen, causing her to be further alarmed at his strange behavior. As a result, Carmen places Walt on indefinite leave. Meanwhile, a somber Marie drops an apprehensive Hank off at the airport for his flight to El Paso. After Marie drives off, Hank receives a call from the Albuquerque sheriff: the blue meth has reappeared. Hank excitedly hails a taxicab back to town, abandoning his El Paso assignment.
In the high school parking lot, Walt is about to pack a box of his work items into his Aztek. Jesse drives up to him and shows off the blue meth he has cooked. Walt angrily takes umbrage at Jesse cooking Walt's formula without him, nitpicking supposed flaws in Jesse's process. Walt further refuses Jesse's request to set up a meeting with Gus. Jesse drives off in a huff, with Walt's box forgotten atop his car, which crashes onto the pavement as he speeds away.
Skyler and Ted continue their affair.
At Beneke Fabricators, a co-worker ignores Skyler's efforts at small talk and glares at her as she walks out of the copy room. Later that day, Skyler and Ted have sex at his house. Afterward, Ted asks Skyler what went wrong with her marriage, as he doesn't want to make the same mistake with her. Skyler replies that she doesn't feel comfortable talking about it.
In an interrogation room, Hank and Gomez attempt to coax information out of a tweaker about the source of the blue meth. The tweaker recalls that the man's name began with "M". Hank wants to pursue this as a possible Heisenberg lead, but Gomez thinks it's inconsequential and that Hank should report to El Paso. "I'm gettin' tired of all the second guessing," Hank replies tersely. Meanwhile, Jesse presents Saul with his bag of meth, revealing that he cooked it himself when Walt refused to return to cooking. Jesse begs Saul to hook him a deal with Gus.
Mike meets Gus in a parking lot and reports that Walt is physically fine but mentally "a disaster," and unlikely to return to cooking voluntarily. Describing the scythe drawing outside his house, Mike asks why Gus doesn't tell Walt that he will die without Gus's protection. Gus responds that he doesn't believe fear to be an effective motivator. Mike relays Saul's request for a meeting with Jesse. Gus reiterates his policy against dealing with junkies, but changes his mind upon learning that Walt and Jesse aren't getting along.
Hank notices the ATM camera.
While following up on the tweaker's tip, Hank listens to an urgent voicemail message from ASAC Merkert about his refusal to report to El Paso. At the gas station, Hank catches the cashier girl in a lie. Sobbing, she admits that a guy with blue eyes and an RV paid her with meth, which she passed along to a friend. The gas station's security camera doesn't work, but Hank notices an ATM whose camera points at the gas pumps.
Over an awkward breakfast with his parents, Junior reports that donations to SaveWalterWhite.com have ceased. He suggests that since Walt is on leave, his dad can watch Holly so that Skyler doesn't have to bring the baby to work. "We'll see," Skyler says.
At an isolated underpass, Jesse delivers the meth to Victor, but complains when he only receives half the payment. Victor replies that it's "your half" before he drives off. Meanwhile, Hank meets with Merkert at the DEA field office and, forced to give a definitive answer, tells him that he will not report to El Paso because he is "close to something big here." Quietly understanding, Merkert tells him to "get to it then".
As he is driving, Walt learns through a radio report that Donald Margolis, Jane's father, has attempted suicide by gunshot. As Walt grimaces with further guilt at the news, a car pulls alongside him at a red light. Victor tosses a paper bag stuffed with money -- "your half"—into Walt's car before speeding away. Walt ponders the cash until the light turns green.

In a flashback to the pilot, Walt hands Jesse all of his remaining life savings to purchase an RV. Instead, Jesse heads to a strip club with Skinny Pete and Combo and spends the cash on a night-long bender filled with lap dances and champagne. Come morning, Jesse panics when he realizes that only $1,400 remains. However, Combo sells him an RV at that price in "a no paperwork-type deal," stealing the vehicle from a driveway.
After another round of sex, Skyler basks in the luxury of Ted's heated bathroom floor, wondering about its cost. Ted offers to let her keep a few things at his house, obviously growing attached.
That evening, Walt sits in Holly's closet, talking on the phone with Jesse. Walt denies dealing with Gus behind Jesse's back, but Jesse demands that Walt hand over his missing other half of the cash payment. Walt counters that it's his formula and he never gave him permission to use it before angrily handing up.
At a campground, Hank ignores Gomez's suggestion to wait for a warrant before searching an RV. He scales the vehicle and peers through its roof vent, startling an older couple playing canasta in their underwear. After mollifying the outraged couple, Hank suggests following up a few more leads, but Gomez says that he can't as he still needs to pack: he's leaving for El Paso.
Hank returns home to shower. Marie urges him to share his feelings about Gomez taking the promotion that Hank refused. When Marie tells him that his past experience in El Paso makes it understandable for him not to go back, Hank angrily replies that he's only staying in Albuquerque to pursue important leads in his Heisenberg investigation.
Walt and Gus at Los Pollos Hermanos.
Walt visits Los Pollos Hermanos and chides Gus for pretending to collaborate with Jesse, someone clearly below Gus' high standards, just to compel Walt to begin cooking again. Gus apologizes for being "so transparent" and invites Walt to take a drive with him, saying that he has something he wants to show Walt. Meanwhile, Skyler receives a call from Marie, who is worried that Hank's brush with death is causing him to change as a person. Skyler contemplates on the truth of her words.
The new state-of-the-art superlab.
Gus drives Walt to Lavandería Brillante, an industrial laundry facility, where a huge washing machine conceals the entrance to a secret basement beneath the building. Inside is a vast state-of-the-art superlab for Walt to use. Although very impressed with the equipment Gus has collected for the lab, Walt again declines his offer, saying that he's already made too many bad decisions. Gus counters that if his decisions were made for his family's welfare, they were not bad. "A man provides," Gus tells Walt. "And he does it even when he's not appreciated, or respected, or even loved—because he's a man."
After another tryst with Ted, Skyler fixes her makeup in his bathroom. Ted suggests they head out for some Thai food, but she declines his invitation. Suddenly uncomfortable with the luxurious surroundings of Ted's house, she looks down at the insulated floor, grabs a towel and stands on it. That night, at the White residence, Skyler moves to comfort a fussy Holly. She notices Walt looking at their daughter longingly but not daring to touch her. Skyler reluctantly allows Walt to pick up and comfort the baby; Walt is elated with the peace offering.
At the DEA field office the next day, Hank is dismayed when his final RV lead hits a dead end. He asks his secretary Janice to check again with the DMV to see if any RVs were overlooked during their first search. At the farewell party for Gomez, Hank hands him a statuette of Jesus Malverde, the patron saint of drug dealers, alluding to his experiences in Gomez's new beat of El Paso. Janice informs Hank that the DMV has indeed discovered an additional RV; its registration wasn't renewed, but the vehicle was never reported as non-operational, destroyed or stolen.
At home, Skyler notices Walt's duffel bag in Holly's closet, finding a pile of drug money inside. She meets with her divorce lawyer, admitting to her affair with Ted and to finding the cash. Skyler's lawyer asks if she is looking for permission to keep the drug money, and warns her that if she will be become an accessory after the fact if she doesn't leave Walt.
When Skyler returns home, she's surprised to find that Walt has removed his money and belongings from Holly's room, and has left the signed divorce papers in her crib. Skyler is taken aback, not quite sure how she feels now that she's gotten what she wanted.
Meanwhile, at his office, Saul attempts to calm an agitated Jesse. When Walt arrives, Saul offers him ten percent of Jesse's future meth profits as a goodwill gesture, then asks that Walt turn over the other half of the money from Jesse's deal with Gus. Walt hands Jesse the cash, telling him that it will be the last money he will ever earn in the drug business, informing Jesse that Gus was only using him to entice Walt to start cooking again. Saul quickly turns on Jesse and negotiates a fee for laundering the $3 million Walt will earn from Gus. Jesse storms out of Saul's office and smashes Walt's windshield with a chunk of concrete.
Hank collecting evidence at Combo's house.
Hank visits the house the RV was registered to and asks its former owner, Mrs. Ortega, why she never reported it stolen. Mrs. Ortega states that she wanted to spare her son, Combo, from being charged for theft. In Combo's bedroom, Hank spots a photograph of Combo and Jesse, taken the night Jesse blew Walt's money at the strip club.
On a Tohajiilee Indian Reservation outside of Albuquerque, a tribal police officer is dispatched to investigate the possible disappearance of an elderly woman. Investigating the woman's property, the officer finds her body behind the outhouse and evidence that someone else has taken up residence inside the house. The officer is confronted by one of the Cousins, Leonel, who distracts him while the other, Marco, sneaks up from behind and slaughters him with the axe.
Walter watching a model condo for purchase.
Skyler calls Walt to discuss the signed divorce papers she found in Holly's crib. Skyler objects to the idea of Walt using his drug money to pay child support, only to contend that Walt has been using that money to pay their bills for the past few months. Walt is looking at a model condo, which he offers to buy with its furnishings. Meanwhile, the Cousins enter Los Pollos Hermanos. Gus watches as they sit down in a booth without ordering anything.
At Jesse's house, the blue meth Jesse has made without Walt dazzles Badger. Jesse invites Badger and Skinny Pete to rejoin him in the business. Jesse proposes that Badger get Clovis to fix up the RV while Skinny Pete procures supplies. As Skinny Pete and Badger depart, they have no idea that Hank is watching them from his SUV parked down the street. Hank recognizes Badger and can hardly contain his glee.
Walt drives Junior, who is sullen about the impending divorce, to school. Elsewhere, Gus arrives at Los Pollos Hermanos and sees the Cousins sitting at their booth. Gus assures his manager that the Cousins are doing nothing wrong, instructing to leave them be. Nonetheless, he does seem annoyed by their persistence.
On his first day of work at the superlab, Walt meets his new assistant, Gale Boetticher, a specialist in X-ray crystallography with a libertarian attitude regarding the use of drugs by consenting adults. Gale is enthused about cooking with Walt and working in the superlab. Prompted by Walt, he recites "When I Heard the Learn'd Astronomer," Walt Whitman's poem about the exhilaration of experiencing scientific wonders first-hand.
Meanwhile, Hank, still staking out Jesse's house, receives a call from Marie and is asked when he's coming home. Hank insists that he must stay where he is until Jesse leads him to the RV or does something illegal. Remembering that Jesse was once alleged to have sold pot to Walt, Marie suggests Hank talk to him on the grounds that he might know something. When Hank calls Walt and starts to explain his theory that the RV is being used as a mobile meth lab, Walt realizes that Hank is closing in on Jesse.
Walt calls Jesse, but hangs up before speaking out of fear of the line being tapped. He then calls Saul and tells him that Hank knows about the RV, which is covered in physical evidence of his presence. Saul tells Walt to get rid of the RV, but Walt is unable to decide what to next. Walt races to the repair yard and orders Clovis and Badger to destroy the RV. Badger tips off Jesse, rushes out of his house and drive to the repair yard, unaware he's being trailed by Hank. Meanwhile, Gus, frustrated with the Cousins lurking in his restaurant, approaches them and arranges an off-site meeting: "Sunset."
At a junkyard, Walt discusses the demolition of the RV with the junkyard's owner, Old Joe, who assures Walt the vehicle will be destroyed and recycled. Walt is alone in the RV when Jesse barges in, confronting him over attempting to get rid of the RV behind his back. Seconds later, Hank drives up to the RV. Walt reprimands Jesse for leading Hank right to them.
After Hank pounds on the door of the RV, Walt strains to hold the door shut when he tries to pry it open with a crowbar. Old Joe confronts Hank, challenging him on whether he has probable cause to search the RV. Their argument evolves into a debate over whether the RV should legally be considered a vehicle or a domicile. If it is the latter, its residents would be constitutionally protected against unlawful search and seizure.
Walt and Jesse inside the RV as Hank is investigating outside.
An increasingly frustrated Hank rips off the duct tape covering the bullet holes in the RV's door, reasoning that a firearm was discharged inside the RV and that gives him probable cause to search it. Prompted by Walt, Jesse asks how Hank could have known that the holes were there before Hank removed the tape. When Jesse asserts that the RV is his domicile, Hank walks back to his car and calls ASAC Merkert to obtain a search warrant. Walt gets an idea and contacts Saul.
Saul's secretary, Francesca, poses as an Albuquerque police officer and dials Hank's number, telling him that Marie has been involved in a car accident and is being airlifted to a hospital. Fearing the worst, Hank leaps into his SUV and drives away from the junkyard. When he reaches the hospital, he realizes he has been tricked when Marie, alive and well, calls him on his cell phone to make plans for dinner. Back at the junkyard, a forklift rips apart the RV and loads its remains into a crusher while Jesse and Walt look on relieved.
At sunset, Gus and the Cousins meet in the desert. Gus reiterates they must back off Walt and asks why they want to kill him. He reasons that while Walt may have betrayed their cousin Tuco, someone else pulled the trigger. The Cousins, citing Bolsa, tell Gus that DEA agents are off-limits to them. Gus replies that north of the border is his territory, so on his orders, he gives them permission to kill Hank.

In a flashback to 1980's Mexico, two young boys fight over a toy while their uncle, Hector Salamanca, disparages the "chicken man" during a phone call. When Hector finishes the call, one of the boys, Leonel, complains that his brother Marco broke the toy. When Leonel says that he wishes his brother dead, Hector dunks Marco's head in a tub of icy water. When Leonel hits Hector in the face, he finally releases Marco, having caught his lesson that "family is all". In the present, the now-grown Cousins light candles at a makeshift Santa Muerte shrine. In the center, they place a photo of Hank.
Furious that he was tricked into believing that his wife was in hospital, Hank violently attacks Jesse at his house, knocking him to the floor and punching him in the face until he's unconscious and bleeding. Realizing he's gone too far, Hank stops himself and calls for an ambulance. As Jesse is being taken away by paramedics, ASAC Merkert approaches Hank and advises that he talk to a lawyer.
Walt, Saul, and Jesse at the hospital.
At the hospital, Walt comes to Jesse's hospital room to find Saul, eager to get Jesse off on grounds of police brutality. When Walt asks what Jesse plans to do next, Jesse says he will set about to destroy Hank's life. Further, Jesse plans to start cooking on his own again and will give up Walt if he gets caught. Outside the room, Walt tells Saul that Jesse will eventually "come around", but Saul warns that they will have to discuss "options" for dealing with Jesse if he doesn't.
At the DEA field office, Hank makes a statement about what happened at the junkyard, but invokes the Fifth Amendment when it comes to his actions at Jesse's house. With Jesse is filing charges, the detectives interviewing Hank ask to photograph his bruised knuckles for the record. After he leaves the office, Hank meets Marie at the elevator. She holds Hank as he sobs on the ride down, but they compose themselves before they reach the lobby.
Skyler visits Walt at his new condo to asks if the situation between Hank and Jesse will blow back on him, then pleads with Walt to convince Jesse not to press charges. Later, at the superlab, Walt arrives at work to discover that Gale has already performed several preliminary tasks for the day's cook. "This might be the beginning of a beautiful friendship," Gale jokes. Walt is surprised, but not convinced.
In the desert, the Cousins meet with a talkative arms dealer who is selling a wide array of weapons from the back of a trailer truck. He gives them a free hollow point bullet — nicknamed "Black Death" — and shows off his bulletproof vest, which the Cousins test by shooting him point blank. When the arms dealer survives, they purchase two vests and leave him on the floor complaining about possible broken ribs.
In the superlab, Walt angrily chastises Gale of making an error. While Gale insists that he followed Walt's instructions, Walt says that he entered the incorrect temperature and that the batch needs to be dumped. Later, Walt calls Gus and tells him that Gale isn't working out, requesting that he be replaced with Jesse. When Walt reminds Gus that he promised to give him the full run of the lab, Gus begrudgingly allows for Jesse to return.
At the Schrader residence, Hank rejects Marie's suggestion to lie about his confrontation with Jesse. When she asserts that Jesse is just a lowlife and Hank's more deserving, he replies that he is supposed to be "better than that". Hank admits that he has been unravelling since he shot Tuco, and intimates that he thinks he is "done as a cop".
Walt visits Jesse in the hospital and pitches the job in the superlab, but Jesse initially rejects the proposal as a ploy to save Hank. Walt says he just wants to be equal partners again, reminding Jesse that he will be earning $1.5 million. Jesse states that it isn't the money he is rejecting, but Walt himself, stating that his life has been ruined ever since the two of them started cooking together. In a last attempt to mollify Jesse, Walt admits that the meth Jesse cooked alone is as good as his own. When he drives back to his condo, Walt receives a phone call from Jesse finally agreeing to reestablish their partnership.
At the DEA office, Hank admits to assaulting Jesse. When he refuses to amend his statement fraudulently to place him (and by extension the agency) in a better light, Merkert has no other choice but suspend him without pay, forcing him to surrender his gun and badge. As Hank leaves, he learns from Merkert that Jesse is not pressing charges after all. When a surprised Hank asks why, Merkert muses that he might have a guardian angel.
Later, Hank visits a mall purchasing gifts for Marie. As he's about to leave in his SUV, Hank receives a phone call in which an electronically disguised voice warns that he has one minute before two men show up to kill him. Hank, defenseless without his gun, scans the parking lot. After one minute passes, Leonel appears and shoots out the rear window, hitting Hank in the arm. Hank throws his SUV into reverse and pins Leonel against the car behind him. Marco, striding toward Hank's driver's-side window, fires multiple shots and hits Hank in the side as Hank grabs Leonel's gun and dives out of the car. Marco shifts Hank's car into drive, releasing Leonel. A badly wounded Leonel tells his brother to "finish him".
Hank manages to shoot before Marco kills him.
Marco strides back toward Hank, shooting a passerby along the way. As Marco reloads, Hank surprises him from behind and shoots him with Leonel's gun, unaware that he's wearing a bulletproof vest. Marco shoots Hank twice in the chest. After a badly injured Hank drops to the ground, Marco decides to use the axe to kill him. Hank grabs Leonel's gun and notices a "Black Death" bullet that Marco dropped on the ground. He fumbles reloading the gun as Marco returns. At the last possible moment, Hank fires the single round into Marco's head, killing him. The falling axe lodges itself in the pavement a few feet away from a bleeding Hank.
A heavily-bruised Jesse is wheeled out of the hospital by an orderly. As he waits outside for his ride, an ambulance arrives carrying a critically wounded Hank. Jesse watches as two emergency room doctors work with paramedics to unload Hank, and follows them as they wheel Hank into the operating room for immediate surgery. Jesse returns outside, where he is eventually picked up by Skinny Pete in his Thunderbird. When Skinny Pete sees Jesse's injuries and asks if he's okay, Jesse smiles and replies, "Actually, I'm great."
In the superlab, Walt tries to fire Gale without hurting his feelings. When Gale pushes for an explanation, Walt tried to use a musical analogy, saying that he is "classical" while Gale is "more jazz". At that moment, Jesse arrives and loudly marvels at the setup in the lab, leaving Gale more confused. When Walt wants to get right to work, Jesse realizes that Walt is unaware that Hank has been shot.
The Whites and Schraders with the DEA in the waiting room.
Walt rushes into a hospital waiting room where Skyler, Marie, Gomez and ASAC Merkert are assembled. Merkert explains that all the DEA knows is that Hank was attacked by two cartel hitmen, and that he killed one of the assassins and critically wounded the other despite sustaining four shots. Marie denounces Gomez and Merkert for making Hank surrender his gun before the shooting. She further blames Walt, saying the entire situation wouldn't have started if he hadn't supposedly bought pot from Jesse. Skyler comes to Walt's defense, insisting it wasn't his fault. Crying, Marie apologizes.
Several DEA agents and police officers offer to donate blood in support of Hank. An impatient Jesse pages Walt, who tells him to sit tight and not cook until he gets to the lab. After Walt hangs up, Skyler suggests they all get breakfast. Walt asks if she knows who was on the phone; Skyler smiles sadly and walks away. In the cafeteria, Marie complains about the dirty silverware and declares the hospital a deathtrap. Sensing she is about to spiral out of control, Walt intervenes. After relating his own anxieties before his surgery in the same hospital, Walt tells Marie, "I survived this place. And I'm not half the man your husband is."
At Los Pollos Hermanos, Gus receives a frantic phone call from Juan Bolsa, who contends that the Cousins would never have shot Hank without approval. Bolsa concedes the next drug shipment it will be delayed indefinitely, vowing that he'll learn the truth about the attack from Leonel, the surviving Cousin. Gus, learning that Leonel has survived, plots a way to tie the loose end.
A doctor announces that Hank is out of surgery. On the way out to run errand for the family, Walt walks into the lobby to find Gomez and other DEA agents holding vigil. Gomez invites Walt to join them in visiting Leonel's ICU room. There, Walt sees that the injuries Leonel sustained during the shooting have caused both of his legs to be amputated. Sensing the group's presence, Leonel turns to look at them, and recognizes Walt. He sits up, tears at the tubes attached to his body, and pushes himself onto the floor, all the while glaring up at Walt. Utterly seething, Leonel drags himself toward him, trailing blood from his stumps, before doctors subdue and drag him back onto the bed.
Stuck in the superlab, Jesse becomes bored and amuses himself by playing with the equipment, such as inflating a hazmat suit with an extractor tube. However, his fun is cut short when Victor catches him and asks why there isn't any cooking. When Jesse contacts Walt about Victor's visit, but a distracted Walt asks if he remembers Tuco mentioning his cousins coming up from Mexico during their captivity in the desert. Jesse thinks he does, but presses Walt about their approaching deadline.
Walt delivers toiletry supplies to his to his family in a waiting room, as well as a book that Hank gave to Junior about the agents who pursued Pablo Escobar. Walt is distracted by a phone call from Gus, lying to him about being "hard at work" and blaming his inability to meet the week's meth quota on Gale's mistakes. He promises to deliver 400 pounds by next week. Later, Walt asks Gomez if the DEA knows who was behind the shooting, and whether other assassins could be on their way. Gomez assures Walt that the attack on Hank was their one attempt and they failed. Gomez's cell rings, and he spreads the word that food is on it's way: Gus is personally delivering fried chicken for every cop in the building. Walt turns pale at the turn of events.
In the waiting room, Walt watches Gus console Marie, knowing that Gus is now aware that he had lied about his whereabouts. Walt's family and ASAC Merkert thank Gus for offering a $10,000 reward for information about the shooting, while Gus mentions that he previously met Hank during a visit to the DEA field office. Walt approaches Gus as he walks out, realizing that he knew all along about his brother-in-law being a DEA agent. Gus replies that he investigates everyone with whom he does business. When Walt asks if Gus's presence is a message to him, Gus says, "I hide in plain sight, same as you." Walt expresses fear for his family's safety, but Gus assures him that the remaining gunman is unlikely to survive.
It is revealed that Gus's fried chicken delivery was just a distraction. While the cops are preoccupied, Mike sneaks into Leonel's room and administers him a lethal injection. Leonel flat-lines, and despite the efforts of doctors and cops to revive him, he dies just as Walt, Gomez and others show up at his room. Amid the commotion, Mike slips away unnoticed, discarding the syringe he just used to kill Leonel.
Gus smiles as he listens to Juan Bolsa's death.
Upon returning to Los Pollos Hermanos, Gus receives another call from Bolsa, who complains that pressure from the U.S. government in the wake of Hank's shooting has brought the Mexican Federales to his residence. Bolsa accuses Gus of betraying him, threatening to pay a visit when things calm down. However, Bolsa is soon gunned down by the Mexican authorities while attempting to escape. Gus listens impassively to Bolsa's demise, smiles, then disposes of the cell phone.
Walt sits with his sleeping family in the waiting room. The doctor enters to inform Marie that she is finally permitted to see Hank. Marie insists that Walt, Skyler, and Junior accompany her. The family solemnly enters Hank's room. As the Whites look on, Marie kisses Hank's forehead and takes his hand.
A television commercial for Los Pollos Hermanos extols the chain's (apocryphal) history and the secret to its signature chicken. The sequence transitions to Walt and Jesse in the superlab, handing off a shipment of blue meth, is sent to Gus's chicken farm. Victor oversees workers as they put plastic bags of meth into specially UV-marked tubs of fry batter for distribution across the Southwest. As the trucks are loaded up and leave the facility, Gus's silhouette can be seen watching them depart.
Walt and Jesse cook a batch that yields slightly more than required. Jesse wants to save the extra product for the next batch, but Walt insists they send it to Gus. Having crunched the number, Jesse grumbles that Gus will gross $96 million to their measly $3 million. Walt replies that Jesse should be happy to be a millionaire.
At the hospital, Gomez visits Hank and shows him a map detailing where blue meth has been found, crediting him with correctly predicting the product's reappearance. Hank does not take much comfort from the news; he's in too much pain. Skyler watches Walt absorb this—and Hank's revelation that he received a call warning him of the Cousins' impending attack, which is the only reason he survived. In the parking lot, Walt tells Skyler he had nothing to do with the shooting and assures her the family is safe.
Jesse at a group therapy session.
Jesse attends a meeting of his support group, where he describes his new workplace as a boring corporate laundromat. "My boss is a dick," Jesse complains, adding that the owner is "a super dick" whom everyone fears. When the group leader refers to Jesse's situation as "Kafkaesque", Jesse, not really understanding what the word means, agrees with him.
Back at the hospital, a doctor tests for feeling in Hank's legs, noting that nerve function appears to be returning. However, the doctor informs Skyler and Marie that the odds are against Hank making a full recovery. Another hospital staffer refers to insurance delays and alludes to policy limitations, but advises Marie not to go out of plan or she could land up bankrupt. Upon being told that insurance covered physical therapy would be medically justifiable but not optimal, Marie decides that she will arrange Hank's care herself.
Saul explains money laundering to a skeptical Jesse.
Saul and Jesse visit a nail spa that, Saul proposes, would be an ideal front for a money laundering scheme. Jesse, unimpressed with Saul's plan and already reluctant to pay taxes, ends the conversation after Saul declines to extend him Walt's 5% fee structure.
Walt and Gus discuss business in the chicken farm office.
Meanwhile, Walt visits the chicken farm to meet with Gus, wanting to discuss "issues that could cause a misunderstanding between us." Walt speculates that he was the Cousins' primary target, and that Gus steered them to Hank in order to protect him, and that he did so to put heat on the cartel, affect their supply, and could corner the entire Southwest meth market. Walt says that he owes Gus his life and respects his strategy. He leaves with a $15 million-a-year open-end deal and Gus's guarantee of the White family remains safe. On the ride home, feeling empowered and reckless, Walt floors his gas pedal and nearly drive his Aztek into an oncoming semi truck.
At another group meeting, Jesse recounts being inspired by Mr. Pike, high school woodworking teacher. At first, Jesse slacked off on in Mr. Pike's class, but when chastised with not being able to do any better, he eventually painstakingly created an intricate box. When asked what he did with it, Jesse says he gave it to his mother. When the group leader suggests "it's never too late", and that Jesse should take art classes, Jesse admits that he didn't really give the box to his mother, but traded it for an ounce of weed.
Skyler and Marie discuss Hank's medical bills at the White residence when Ted makes a surprise visit. When the conversation is taken outside, Ted asks why Skyler is being secretive, under the impression that she has divorced Walt. Skyler chides Ted for putting her on the spot. Ted departs, telling her to take as much time as she needs.
Jesse, Badger, and Skinny Pete at the diner.
Jesse visits a deli with Badger and Skinny Pete, reminiscing about being able to cook "anytime, anywhere" when in the RV and not having people boss him around. "What's the point of being an outlaw when you got responsibilities?" he complains. Jesse proposes they sling, hinting that he has found a new market to tap. Back at the lab, he underreports a batch's weight when it's a couple of pounds over.
Badger and Skinny Pete follow Jesse's new business plan by accompanying him to his next group support meeting. There, they make a point of mentioning the blue meth that's "back in town", enticing the other recovering addicts in the group. 
Skyler offers financial help to Marie and Hank as a stunned Walt listens in.
Meanwhile, at the hospital, Marie threatens to take Hank's story to the press if he doesn't receive top-grade therapy. Ignoring Walt's hesitance, Skyler offers to pay Hank's medical bills. Explaining how she came upon a large amount of money, Skyler spins a tale about Walt attempting to provide for his family by developing a card counting system and winning big in illegal blackjack games. Marie is astonished by the supposed admission. Walt plays along, impressed by Skyler's ability to lie. When he asks how Skyler came up with the story, she replies that she "learned from the best". Skyler also voices her suspicion that Hank was shot because of Walt. She walks out, once again leaving Walt crestfallen.
Over disjointed, extreme closeups of a common housefly, Skyler softly sings a lullaby to Holly.
Walt lies awake at two in the morning in his condo, staring up at his smoke detector's flashing indicator light. Later, after he and Jesse scrub the equipment in the superlab, Walt pores over calculations and notes that the meth yields are consistently short. Jesse suggests spillage, evaporation and condensation might account for the discrepancy. Walt rejects these hypotheses, but admits that "the vestiges" left from their cooking process could possibly account for a portion of the missing meth.
After Jesse leaves for the day, Walt becomes distracted by a fly that is loose in the lab. His efforts become increasingly desperate as he chases it all over the room. Walt ends up breaking an overhead lamp with his shoe, which gets lodged in the ceiling. Balancing dangerously on the outer rail of the lab's catwalk, Walt attempts to dislodge his shoe. When Walt tries to swat at the fly with a broom, he falls from the catwalk onto the concrete floor. As Walt attempts to recover, the fly lands right on one of the lenses of Walt's eyeglasses.
Jesse arrives at the industrial laundry the next morning to find Walt's Aztek still parked outside. Before exiting his own car, Jesse looks at his ashtray and notices lipstick on an old cigarette butt left by Jane Margolis months before. He places it back, not willing to or able to throw it out.
Jesse has to force his way into the superlab; Walt has dramatically increased the air pressure to address what he calls a "contamination". Jesse initially assumes that Walt is talking about a dangerous disease, and is nonplussed when Walt tells him the contaminate is a fly. Jesse works furtively to keep their current batch of meth, halfway through the cooking process, on track. Walt orders Jesse to wait until the fly is caught, and smacks him with the swatter when Jesse continues anyway. After a scuffle, the fly lands on Walt's head. Jesse, relishing the opportunity to get back at Walt, swats hard. Reeling, Walt crawls on the floor looking for the fly's corpse, but finds only a stray raisin. Jesse convinces Walt that they should step outside and get some air. However, after Jesse passes through the doorway, Walt snatches his keys and locks himself in the lab. Jesse counters by shutting off the lab's main circuit breaker and asking the laundry workers for an axe.
Later on, the power is restored. Jesse shows Walt the assortment of pest control supplies he has purchased. Walt deems the nontoxic glue strips acceptable. Walt and Jesse hang them throughout the lab. Jesse prepares coffee and slips some sleeping pills into Walt's cup, in an effort to force him to get some much-needed sleep. Jesse tells Walt the story of an opossum that took up residence beneath his aunt Ginny's house, he continues, but even after it had been removed she insisted it was still there. Ginny would tap on the floor with an umbrella yelling at the opossum to keep it down. Ginny had given the opossum a name, "Scrabbles".
Walt tells Jesse that he's lived too long, struggling through his own guilt and anger, expressing frustration that he cannot make Skyler comprehend his motivation for cooking. Walt ruminates further on when the perfect moment occurred, and reveals he stopped at a bar, where he met Jane's father, Donald Margolis. Walt, becoming groggy, says that earlier the same evening he had been watching TV. On the baby monitor he could hear Skyler singing Holly a lullaby.
The fly begins buzzing again. Jesse wheels over two steel carts, precariously stacks a ladder atop them and starts climbing. Half-asleep, Walt clutches the ladder while Jesse swats. Descending the ladder, Jesse spots the fly and swats. The fly falls to the floor dead. Walt, asleep, misses Jesse's victory.
Later, outside the industrial laundry as Walt's about to drive off, he warns Jesse that if he's skimming meth and Gus finds out, he won't be able to protect him. Jesse denies having taken any. Back at his condo, Walt wakes to the sound of buzzing. Staring up at the smoke detector, he watches a fly land on the blinking light.
In a flashback, Jesse and Jane visit the Georgia O'Keeffe museum in Santa Fe and observe her painting, "My Last Door." Unimpressed, Jesse argues that O'Keeffe painted the same door repeatedly attempting to achieve perfection, and doesn't understand why she'd bother. To Jane, the repetition was about making a good feeling last. Her point made, Jane extinguishes her cigarette, marked with an impression of her pink lipstick, in the ashtray.
At the hospital, Hank, suspended in an electromechanical patient lifter, works with a physical therapist. Taking even one step proves too painful, and he angrily cuts the session short. Outside of the therapy room, Marie gives Skyler the first medical bill, asking if she's indeed sure about covering the payment.
In the superlab, Walt takes over the weighing of a meth batch, to which Jesse acts offended. Walt silences Jesse, making a slight motion with his finger, implying that, again, the lab might be monitored.
At Jesse's support group, a reluctant newcomer named Andrea Cantillo begins attending. Badger and Skinny Pete admit to Jesse that they can't bring themselves to sell to recovering addicts. To show them how easily addicts can be tempted, Jesse strikes up a conversation with Andrea, who had mentioned before in the session that she didn't want to be there.
Over dinner, Junior announces that he'll soon be qualified to drive without supervision, and suggests that his parents think about what car to buy for him. Later, Walt hands Skyler a check for Hank's medical bill from his "guy." Skyler, insisting that the origin of the money must be "unimpeachable", is not convinced that Walt's "guy" is competent and insists on meeting him. Walt takes Skyler to meet Saul at his office the next day. Saul's suggestive quips don't impress Skyler, nor does his proposal to launder Walt's money through a laser tag business. Saul, in turn, is annoyed by Skyler questioning his ideas.
Jesse makes out with Andrea at her house. He initially tries to push blue meth onto Andrea, but the arrival of her five-year-old son, Brock, and her grandmother interrupts the pitch. Andrea describes Jesse as being "like a sponsor" to her disbelieving grandmother.
Driving back from Saul's office with Walt, Skyler criticizes Saul's lack of caution. Despite the clownish behavior, Walt assures her, Saul knows what he's doing and that his involvement in producing meth is "ongoing." Skyler stops at the car wash where Walt used to work, suggesting that they use that business to launder their money. "It's a story people will believe, not laser tag," she says. "This is what we buy."
Outside the support group meeting, Jesse asks Skinny Pete and Badger why they're still attending if they won't sell to addicts; it turns out they are actually advancing in the recovery program. Disgruntled, Jesse leaves with Andrea. At a taco restaurant, Jesse entertains Brock with magic tricks. While chatting, Jesse learns that Andrea has a younger brother, Tomás. "We don't talk about him," she says.
Sitting in Saul's Cadillac outside the car wash, Walt explains the logic of purchasing this business instead of the laser tag. Walt contends that any story can work as long as it's sold with conviction and one has a trusted accomplice who will look the other way.
Meanwhile, after a night of sex, Andrea asks Jesse for some blue meth. Jesse, having changed his mind about pushing it on her, chides Andrea for using meth when she had a child to take care of. Andrea takes offense, insisting that she is not a bad mother and upset that a drug dealer would judge her on how she lives her life. The two discuss her struggle to spare Brock the same fate as Tomás, who became fell in with a gang and, at age ten, killed a rival dealer as part of an initiation rite. Realizing that Andrea's story closely matches the circumstances of Combo's murder, Jesse grimly quizzes her about the details.
At the hospital, Marie excitedly tells Hank that he will soon be released, and physical therapy equipment and a hospital bed have already been installed at their home. Outraged, Hank tells her to remove the equipment, insisting that he won't leave the hospital until he is finally able to walk.
That night, at the White residence, Skyler proposes that she perform as Walt's illicit partner at the car wash. When Walt objects to her involvement, Skyler tells him that she is deeply involved in his criminal activities already and that reveals that she did not sign the divorce papers. Walt is aghast as she further points out that married people cannot be compelled to testify against their spouses.
Gus surprises Walt with an invitation to his home for dinner. There, Gus hands Walt a large knife to chop some garlic for the Chilean dish he's cooking. Walt, uneasy about what Gus is up to, complies. Over dinner, Gus offers to help Walt avoid mistakes that he himself made starting out. He mentions that people know how to be poor, but need to learn how to be rich. His first piece of advice is: "Never make the same mistake twice."
The next day, Jesse drives to the corner where Combo was shot, where he spots Tomás circling about on his bike and asks to buy meth. Moments later, Jesse hands money to the rival dealers who directed the murder, after which Tomás then slips the meth to Jesse and tells him to bounce. The meth is blue, suggesting that these dealers work for Gus. Angered, Jesse leaves.


The episode opens to a musical montage sequence of Wendy turning tricks outside "The Crystal Palace". Her finances replenished, she exchanges cash and burgers for blue meth with the rival dealers. Jesse, sitting nearby in his car, watches the deal go down.
Walter sits in his car's passenger seat while Junior practices for his upcoming driving test. When the two arrive home, Skyler privately presses Walt about their car wash scheme. Walt uses the opening with Skyler to negotiate four nights of family dinners a week, claiming that them buying a car wash would be more plausible if they seemed reconciled.
After work, Jesse takes Walt to a bar and shows him the blue meth he purchased from Tomás and the rival dealers responsible for Combo's murder. Jesse asks Walt for ricin, planning to have Wendy slip tainted burgers to the dealers when she next buys meth. Walt dismisses the plan, reasoning that he and Jesse lost a simple turf war, and that killing the dealers at this point won't achieve anything. Jesse says that he will kill them, with or without Walt's help.
At the hospital, Marie, Hank, are playing a card game when Marie baits Hank by mentioning that the doctors say he is well enough to be released. Hank, however, continues to insist that he will not leave the hospital until he can walk again.
Walt and Saul wait for Jesse to show at the law office. Desperate to find a way to stop Jesse, Walt suggests having him arrested somehow, reasoning that Jesse will have time to calm down if he's off the street. Meanwhile, at the Crystal Palace, Jesse tries to ease Wendy's qualms about the murder plot by appealing to her maternal instincts — she has a son named Patrick.
Mike surprises Walt with a visit to his home to tell him that neither he nor Saul will be pursuing any suggestion of getting Jesse arrested. Mike reveals that he also works for Gus, who would "take it as a problem" if Jesse landed in jail. He then tells Walt a story from his time as a police officer, when he confronted a chronic wife abuser. Mike intervened, and almost killed the wife-beater, but gave in when the abuser promised to change his ways. Shortly thereafter the man beat his wife to death. Mike's mistake was to take a half measure when he should have taken a full one. "No more half measures, Walter," he says referring to Jesse.
At the corner, Wendy sits in Jesse's car clutching a bag of poisoned burgers, but the dealers are not present. Mike and Victor take them by surprise and whisk Jesse away to Gus's chicken farm. There, he is brought before Walt and Gus, sitting side by side, as well as the rival dealers. Gus concedes that his employees "acted rashly" in murdering Combo, but that contends that he was selling on their territory.
When Jesse accuses Walt of ratting him out, Gus tells him that without Walt, "I would be dealing with this in a very different way." Gus orders Jesse to make peace with the dealers, but Jesse refuses on the grounds that they use kids in their business. Incensed by Jesse's insolence, but committed to finding a resolution, Gus tells the dealers, "No more children," and orders Jesse to shake their hands. On the drive away from the chicken farm, Walt tells Jesse that his actions affect other people and that compromise is sometimes necessary. Jesse, furious, doesn't respond to Walt.
At the hospital, Marie gives Hank a sponge bath and playfully bets him that she can physically arouse him with a handjob. Certain that nothing will happen, Hank agrees to return home if she succeeds. She does indeed succeed; the scene cuts to Marie smiling victoriously as she wheels an annoyed Hank out of the hospital.
That night, Jesse and Andrea are enjoying each other's company in bed when the phone rings. Andrea becomes hysterical as she is told bad news by her grandmother. The couple rush to a playground, where Tomás's dead, bullet-riddled body has been found.
The next day, Jesse is absent from the superlab, causing Walt to repeatedly dial his voicemail. That night, Walt sees a TV news report on Tomás's murder. Realizing what is about to happen, Walt abruptly leaves dinner with his family.
Meanwhile, Jesse is parked at the corner and snorts some meth to get his confidence up. Spotting the dealers' car, Jesse picks up his gun and steps out of his car. The dealers, also armed, notice Jesse approaching them and prepare for a confrontation. Just as they draw their guns, however, Walt suddenly plows into the dealers with his Aztek. One is killed instantly under the wheels; the other, badly injured, is shot in the head by Walt as he reaches for his gun. Walt looks up at the horrified Jesse and utters one word: "Run."
In a flashback to 1993, a realtor shows a younger Walt and Skyler (pregnant with Junior) the house where they will eventually live. Walt, currently working at the prestigious Sandia Laboratory, and envisioning a bright future with three children, worries they aren't setting their sights high enough with the house. However, Skyler argues that the house is the best they can get.
In the present, Walt sits in his car in the desert until an SUV arrives. Mike phones Walt and instructs him to walk toward the SUV. Meeting him halfway, Walt is frisked by Mike. Soon he is confronted by Gus, who demands to know why he put them all at risk for Jesse, a "worthless junkie". Walt explains that Jesse wanted revenge against Gus's dealers for killing Tomás, and perhaps thought Gus had given the order. Gus denies ordering the murder. Walt suggests that Gus has two options: kill Walt and spend months searching for Jesse, or overlook the incident and continue their partnership. Gus accedes, but insists on choosing Walt's new lab assistant.
When Walt reports to the superlab the next morning, he is surprised to see that the locks have been changed and that Gale has been reinstated as his assistant.
Four cartel hitmen go to a warehouse owned by Gus's chemical supplier, Duane Chow, and take him and his secretary hostage. Mike appears and effortlessly kills all four of the hitmen. He then shoots Chow through the hand and orders him to have his assistant drive him to the hospital—the wound is Chow's penalty for not informing Gus about the situation. At Gus's office, Mike and Gus examine the gunmen's passports and agree that the cartel is looking for weaknesses to exploit in Gus's operation.
In the superlab, Walt and Gale cook while Victor observes them from the catwalk. Alluding to previously upsetting Walt, Gale promises to follow his instructions exactly and to be the perfect lab assistant. Walt assures him that he's doing fine. Later, Gus surprises Gale at his apartment and tells him about Walt's diagnosis. He tells Gale that he plans on keeping Walt as long as he wants, but asks Gale to learn how to master Walt's cooking process in the event that he dies.
Mike heads to Saul's office in order to find Jesse's whereabouts. Saul initially invokes attorney-client privilege, but when Mike threatens him, Saul lets Mike sneak a peek at a notebook containing the name of a trailer park in Virginia. Later, Saul drives Walt to the laser tag business, knowingly being followed by Victor. Once inside, it is revealed that Jesse is hiding out in the laser tag. Saul warns both of his clients that Mike will soon realize the Virginia address is a decoy. Speaking privately with Jesse, Walt says that he is only safe until Gale feels confident enough to take over the lab. They decide that they have to kill Gale, and debate over who should do it. After Jesse states he doesn't want to be a murderer, Walt says that he will kill Gale instead.
That night, as Walt is leaving his house to go kill Gale, Victor pulls up and tells him to get in, claiming there is a chemical leak in the lab. At the industrial laundry, Walt sees Mike and knows he's about to be executed. Walt seemingly offers to give up Jesse. Mike demands to know Jesse's whereabouts, but Walt explains that since he moves around, Walt must call him to arrange a meeting. Back at the arcade, Jesse receives Walt's call and is instructed to kill Gale. Jesse cuts the call, grabs the gun, and runs off.
Mike and Victor draw guns on Walt, but Walt tells them to hold off, reciting Gale's address. The two recognize the address and what is about to happen; Victor immediately leaves to intercept Jesse while Mike phones Gale. However, music and a noisy teakettle prevent Gale from hearing his phone vibrate. As he pours himself a cup of tea, Gale hears a knock on his front door. He answers. It's Jesse.
"You don't have to do this," Gale pleads.
Jesse pulls out his gun and points it at Gale's head. Gale, at first thinking it's just a hold-up, offers he take whatever he wants, adding he has large amounts of cash; but it soon dawns on him that none of that will do, and that Jesse is there to kill him. Gale begs for his life. Jesse—his eyes tearing, and fighting back every impulse not to do this—reluctantly fires the gun.
