In a flashback, Gale excitedly unpacks new lab equipment in the superlab, making notes in a notebook. Gus visits the lab to check on Gale's progress. Gale tells him that the sample of blue meth he has been given to analyze is beyond the chemical purity that he, or anyone else he knows of, can produce. Gus politely demurs, saying the chemist responsible wouldn't make a suitable partner. Gale disagrees, saying they "have their work cut out for them" if that is their competition. Gale's comments cause Gus to reconsider.
Gale's corpse
In the present, Jesse stands in Gale's doorway, having just shot him. In a state of shock, he does not rush from the scene. Later, Victor arrives at the apartment complex, pushes his way through a small group of onlookers gathering outside the open doorway, and sees Gale's body. Outside, he spots a shellshocked Jesse in his car. Victor jumps in and orders Jesse to drive at gunpoint.
Victor takes Jesse to the superlab, where Walt and Mike are staring each other down. Walt initially assumes that Jesse failed, but realizes from his dazed emotional condition that he did in fact kill Gale. Mike takes Victor aside and asks if he performed a sweep of Gale's apartment. He replies that he couldn't on account of the people already there. When Mike asks if he was seen, Victor dismissively admits he was.
Early the next morning, Marie appears at the White residence with a stack of unpaid medical bills. Seeing Walt's Aztek in the driveway, she assumes that he and Skyler have reunited. After she leaves, Skyler moves the Aztek to a nearby street so Walt Jr. won't ask questions when he wakes up.
Back at the lab, Walt explains the new reality to Mike and Victor: like it or not, he is the only one who can keep up with their production schedule. In response, Victor switches on the lab equipment, having become familiar with the cooking process by watching Walt and Gale. Now the two face a potential problem: whether Victor can manage a cook by himself.
Saul is frantically scouring every inch of his office for bugs when he receives a call from Skyler asking about Walt's whereabouts. Returning her call by payphone, he falsely assures her Walt is fine; then he tells his new bodyguard, Huell Babineaux, that they might need to leave town. Meanwhile, Skyler drives with Holly to Walt's apartment. When no one answers the door, she summons a locksmith, Adam, and pressures him to illegally let her inside by feigning a panic attack. Searching the apartment, she finds no clues to where her husband might be.
Meanwhile, at the Schrader residence, a frustrated Hank is being put through physical therapy with a trainer. Marie gushes about Hank's progress but Hank dismisses the compliment, commenting that he only covered sixteen feet in twenty minutes. Humiliated and defeated, he asks Marie to help him use his bedpan.
Gus slicing Victor's throat with a box cutter
In the superlab, Walt watches Victor's cooking process and is dismayed when he doesn't miss a step. Gus arrives, quietly glaring at him and Jesse. As he wordlessly changes into an orange clean-up suit, an increasingly anxious Walt defends his actions and insists he and Jesse are the only two meth cooks he can rely on. Gus picks up a box-cutter and walks menacingly toward Walt and Jesse. Instead of attacking them, however, he grabs Victor and slashes his carotid artery, causing blood to spray everywhere. Walt can hardly look at the scene, and even Mike briefly draws his gun in shock, but Jesse glares back at Gus. Gus silently changes back into his suit. Before he leaves the lab, he tells Walt and Jesse to "get back to work".
Walt and Jesse, with some assistance from Mike, squeeze Victor's body into a plastic drum and pour in hydrofluoric acid. Walt seals the drum, which is shipped off with a load of hazardous material. Later at a Denny's restaurant, a shaken Walt asks Jesse what their next move is going to be since, he believes, Gus will kill them at the first opportunity. Jesse says that Gus won't dispose of them, but thinks that his murder of Victor still sent a message: "If I can't kill you, you'll sure as shit wish you were dead."
Walt arrives at the White residence in a cab but can't find his Aztek. Skyler meets him in the driveway and tells him she moved it to avoid questions from Walt Jr. She doesn't ask where he's been; she simply directs him to his car and returns to the house. Walt smiles, optimistic that he's making some headway with Skyler. Meanwhile, at Gale's apartment, the Albuquerque Police processes the murder scene; Gale's notebook sits in plain sight on his coffee table.

In a motel room, Walt purchases a .38 snub-nosed revolver from Lawson, an illicit gun dealer procured by Saul. Watching him awkwardly draw the weapon, Lawson tells Walt that as long as the gun is for defense, there is little sense in him carrying an illegal firearm.
Mike has coffee in a bar and notices Victor's dried blood on his jacket sleeve; he wipes it off, unsettled. Meanwhile, Jesse has purchased a large sound system and shows it off to Badger and Skinny Pete. He then successfully tempts his friends, who are in recovery, to take some meth. As the three of them get high, Jesse decides to throw a party. His house quickly becomes a crowded with people. Elsewhere, at his condo, Walt practices drawing his revolver.
Marie Schrader wakes in the middle of the night to find Hank Schrader examining his minerals. When she mentions how late it is, he pointedly notes that the house has other bedrooms.
The next morning, Walt chastises Skyler White for discussing their intention to buy a car wash over the phone. They're not talking about purchasing a brothel, she counters, adding that if Walt isn't willing to pull the trigger on the deal then she'll contact Saul Goodman directly.
Jesse, meanwhile, tiptoes through the passed-out partygoers. Peeling off some large bills, Jesse instructs Badger to buy everyone breakfast and keep the party going until he returns. At the lab, Walt tucks his gun in his belt, waiting for Gustavo Fring to arrive. When someone enters the laboratory and appears at the top of the stairs, Walt prepares to draw. Only instead of Gus, who arrives is actually Victor's replacement, Tyrus Kitt, there to pick up the latest batch. When Mike demands a second weighing ("new policy") Walt asks to see Gus to "clear the air." Mike simply responds that Walt will never see Gus again. Mike leaves, as Tyrus and Jesse weigh the batch. Walt looks unsettled, his plan to deal with Gus will be harder than he thought.
Surveilling the car wash from across the street, Skyler tallies the cars and services each customer receives, making a detailed accounting of the business. At the Schrader house, Hank pushes himself to "soldier up" through a tough physical therapy session. Marie is elated by Hank's progress, but after the therapist departs, Hank coldly orders her out of the room.
The party is in full swing at Jesse's house when he returns from the lab. Andrea rings the doorbell, but waits outside to speak with him. She asks Jesse if he sent her an envelope of cash the night her brother's killers were murdered. Jesse acknowledges he did, then urges her to use the money to move her son Brock to a better neighborhood.
Late that night, Walt approaches Gus's house, gun in hand, but loses his nerve when Tyrus calls, telling him, "Go home, Walter." Surprised, he looks all around but sees nothing. But, it seems his every move is being watched.
The next day, a deliveryman arrives at the Schrader home with box upon box of minerals. Hank instructs Marie to check each box for damage. "They're rocks," she replies, bristling. He corrects her, "they're minerals," and that some of them are very delicate. Once again, Hank treats her unkindly and Marie feels it acutely. At the car wash, Skyler approaches Bogdan Wolynetz with a proposal to buy his business. Knowing that Walter is behind the offer, he derisively asks for $10 million; Skyler counters with $879,000 then shows him detailed research of his expenses and revenues. Bogdan counteroffers with $20 million and asks Skyler to leave because he believes Walter is using her to buy the car wash.
Walt approaches Mike at a bar and tells him that his recent actions were motivated by loyalty to Jesse and self-defense. Walt says that he believes that Mike was just following orders when he tried to kill him. Walt insists that he and Mike are in "the same boat," and that Gus could easily kill either of them. Mike seems to consider the suggestion for a moment, then knocks Walt to the floor with a savage punch, and kicks him twice in the gut when he's down.
As Jesse's party finally breaks up, he asks Badger and Skinny Pete to stick around. Badger and Skinny Pete apologetically decline, disappointing a depressed Jesse who's desperate for the distraction. Alone in his house for the first time in days, Jesse cranks up the music to earsplitting levels, and sits against the shaking speaker, shaking. With fingers digging into his temples, Jesse starts to panic at being left with only the mess, the music, and his thoughts for company.
While preparing for another cook in the superlab, Walt hears a whirring sound. He looks up to see that a surveillance camera has been installed above the lab, allowing Gus to track his every move. Furious, Walt walks up to the camera and gives it the middle finger.
Frustrated that Walt won't return her calls, Skyler visits his apartment and demands that they discuss buying the car wash; Walt replies that he's facing far more pressing matters. Noticing the bruise on Walt's face from Mike's beating, she tells him to go to the police. When she presses for details, Walt admits he got into a minor disagreement with a colleague over a "business strategy", and refuses to turn to the authorities. Skyler makes Walt promise she'll be informed if he's ever in danger.
Marie attends a residential open house, apparently up to something. After she arrives home, Marie unpacks her shopping, along with a figurine she stole from the open house; her kleptomania is resurfacing.
In the superlab, Walt complains about the surveillance camera to Jesse, who just shrugs it off. He asks if Walt would like to race go-karts with him after work. Walt, confused and disinterested, says he has other plans. He then asks Jesse how he's doing and if there's anything he should know; Jesse points to Walt's bruised eye and asks Walt the same.
Meeting with the Whites at Walt's apartment, Saul pitches the prospect of using the Zen Nail Spa as their front for laundering Walt's money. Walt thinks that the nail spa is the safer option, believing that the car wash is a bad idea. However, Skyler mentions her previous visit to the car wash, during which how Bodgan questioned Walt's manhood. Offended, Walt changes his mind and insists to Saul that they buy the car wash.
Marie visits another open house and admires the owner's collection of spoons. The agent, Stephanie, notices that one of the spoons, which Marie specifically admired, is missing. That evening, Jesse races go-karts alone, shouting at the top of his lungs as he takes a curve. He arrives home to a meth party that's spiraling out of control, with people fighting, having sex and vandalizing the house. Jesse sits down, lights a cigarette, and impassively watches the chaos.
Marie attends another open house, but exits swiftly when Stephanie recognizes her. Stephanie confronts Marie outside and they tussle over Marie's purse. It falls to the ground, revealing a framed picture frame Marie lifted from the house. Marie is arrested, and calls Hank from the police station. There, she is told by Sgt. Tim Roberts that the homeowners are not pressing charges. When he asks if she wants to go home, Marie starts to sob.
While giving Holly a bubble bath, Skyler is struck by an idea and calls Saul. The two arrange for an associate of Saul's named Patrick Kuby to visit the car wash posing as a government environmental inspector. With Skyler coaching him through a Bluetooth earpiece, Kuby presents Bogdan with water samples that he claims are full of contaminants. Bogdan is told that he must cease operations until he replaces his entire wastewater treatment system. Bogdan is left frustrated.
Hank is visited by Tim, who solicits his help in the Gale Boetticher case. Showing Hank a copy of Gale's notebook, Tim speculates that it pertains to a methamphetamine superlab. Hank dismisses Tim's overture but halfheartedly agrees to review the notebook. Meanwhile, at the White residence, Walt and Skyler wait on word from Bogdan. The phone finally rings — Bogdan is calling with an offer to sell the car wash for $879,000. Skyler reduces her offer to $800,000, hanging up when Bogdan balks. A few moments later Bogdan calls back and accepts the counteroffer, much to Skyler's satisfaction.
Meanwhile, trying to breathe some life into the very unsavory and lethargic crowd in his living room, Jesse tosses his drug money into the air and watches his guests scramble after it. In a nearby car, Tyrus Kitt, a henchman of Gus, watches Jesse's house. Back at the White residence, Walt toasts the success of Skyler's scheme with a $320 bottle of champagne. This bothers Skyler, as it would raise questions about how an unemployed teacher could make such a purchase and undermine their story. Walt insists that she's being paranoid. Late that night, a bored and sleepless Hank reaches for Gale's notebook and begins reading.
On a rural highway, Mike is huddled inside a Los Pollos Hermanos truck which is soon forced off the road by two Cartel gunmen. Mike pulls out his pistol and cautiously listens as the gunmen confront and execute the driver. He hunkers down as the gunmen open fire on the truck, riddling it with bullets. Thinking that they've killed anyone inside, they break open the back doors. Mike pops up from behind some boxes and kills both of them. Upon climbing out of the truck, Mike realizes that a bullet has grazed his right ear.
After attending a Gamblers Anonymous meeting, Walt and Skyler study card-counting techniques to reinforce their cover story that Walt purchased the car wash using gambling winnings. She hands him a detailed script for their scheduled dinner with Hank, Marie, and Walt Jr. Walt is frustrated that Skyler is portraying him in a bad light even though he has been providing for the family. He reassesses his attitude and apologizes to Skyler for getting her involved in this whole situation.
The Whites visit the Schrader residence and are greeted by Marie and a wheelchair-bound Hank. Hank shows Walt and Walt Jr. a DVD of Gale Boetticher singing karaoke, which is a piece of evidence from a case that Hank has been asked to look at. Although Hank revels in mocking Gale's performance, Walt becomes increasingly uneasy watching the video, being reminded of Gale's murder.
At dinner, Skyler and Walt convince the rest of the family about Walt's purported gambling problem. Walt is silently amazed at Skyler's tears-on-cue performance. Under the guise of using the bathroom, Walt enters Hank's bedroom and finds his case file on the Gale Boetticher investigation. Inside, he is finds photos of Gale's body as well as Gale's notebook. Hearing noise, Walt quickly puts the file away.
Outside the bedroom, Walt runs into Hank. When Hank offers him a listening ear over his gambling issues, Walt seizes the opportunity and offers his own help in the Gale Boetticher case. The two return to Hank's bedroom and look over the files together. Walt browses the notebook looking for any evidence that can be traced back to himself or Jesse. Hank believes that Gale was "Heisenberg", lamenting that he should have been the one to catch him. He brings Walt's attention to a dedication Gale wrote in the front of the notebook "to W.W.", jokingly suggesting that it is addressed to Walt. Walt holds up his hands and says, "You got me."
Walt rushes to Jesse's house and asks him if he could have left behind any evidence at Gale's apartment following the murder. Jesse is unwilling to relive the experience, but Walt insists that Jesse try to remember the event step by step. Eventually, Jesse becomes fed up with Walt's questioning and pays two partygoers to throw him out of the house.
The next day, Walt tells Saul he fears that Hank will connect Gale's murder to Jesse, who in turn will be seen as a risk by Gus. Saul mentions that Walt can pay to have a “disappearer” remove his family from Albuquerque and set them up with new identities, but stresses that this is an option of last resort. Walt contemplates but rejects the idea, and they're stuck at an impasse.
The next morning, before leaving for work, Jesse heads to his bedroom and comes back with a wad of cash to keep the party going. A tweaker sees this and connects the dots: Jesse has stashed money upstairs. In the superlab, Walt watches as Gus' surveillance camera follows Jesse's every move—his worry over his partner amps up. Jesse returns home, tosses his guests some meth, then takes a female partygoer to his bedroom. There, Jesse notices his money has been stolen but doesn't react—he begins playing a video game, without a care.
The next morning, Mike wakes Jesse and drags him downstairs, where Tyrus is holding the tweaker thief, beaten and blindfolded, along with Jesse's bag of cash. Jesse takes his money and treats Mike dismissively, prompting Mike to threaten him. Mike returns to Los Pollos Hermanos and meets with Gus, explaining that Jesse is becoming a liability who needs to be dealt with.
Later, Walt is forced to handle to cook alone in the superlab and is incensed when he can't reach Jesse by phone. Afterwards he goes to Jesse's house, finding his cell phone on the bedside table. Realizing that he has been taken somewhere, Walt returns to the superlab and growls at the surveillance camera. Elsewhere, Mike is driving on a remote highway with Jesse in his passenger seat. Mike asks Jesse if he wants to know where they're going, to which he indifferently says no. The two drive off into the desert.

Speeding through the streets of Albuquerque, Walt contacts Saul on his cell phone and instructs him to deliver all of his money to Skyler if he doesn't return within twenty-four hours. He then leaves a message on Skyler's voicemail, telling her he loves her: evidently, Walt is heading into some kind of showdown that he doesn't expect to survive. He places his revolver on the passenger seat of his Aztek.
An armed Walt storms into Los Pollos Hermanos and demands to speak with Gus. Having seen Gus' car parked outside, he doesn't believe the manager when she says that Gus isn't there. Walt tells her that he will wait in the restaurant until Gus is called out. He receives a call from Mike, who tells him that Jesse will be with him for the day; Jesse confirms that he is okay, but doesn't know where Mike is heading. Walt brushes past the manager and bursts into Gus' office, onto to find it empty.
In the desert, Mike drives up a long dirt road. After he exits his car, an on-edge Jesse positions his keys between his fingers to use as a probable weapon. He watches as Mike grabs a shovel from the trunk and starts digging. After a few moments, he pulls a bag of money out of the ground and tosses it in the trunk. Mike tells Jesse that they have six more collections to make today and that he wants to have it done before dark.
Sgt. Tim Roberts visits Hank's house to discuss the Gale Boetticher case. Hank identifies Jesse and Badger as the only people directly tied to the blue meth that he knows of. He admits to having "a history" with Jesse, but doubts that he murdered Gale.
Mike makes his next pickup at an abandoned warehouse and finds Jesse standing guard when he returns to the car. As the pickups continue, Jesse becomes increasingly bored and frustrated. Eventually he says to Mike that if he's riding shotgun as "the guy" on this assignment, then he should be told where they are going and why. Mike pulls the car over and angrily tells Jesse that he is not "the guy", commenting that, "I had a guy, but now I don't." Mike insists that he doesn't know why Gus included Jesse in the errand.
In the superlab, Walt struggles to handle the prep work for the cook by himself. He returns home to sign papers finalizing the loan to buy the car wash. Skyler tells him that if their plan is to succeed, they have to be completely honest with each other. Skyler then plays her voicemail and hears Walt's message from earlier saying that he loves her. The two stare at each other meaningfully for a moment, then rush into the bedroom to make love.
Walt Jr. arrives home and realizes that his parents are together in the bedroom. Skyler frets over her son's reaction and suggests that Walt move back home in order to reinforce their cover story. Later, back at the superlab, Walt drops a barrel of methylamine while struggling with the forklift. Fed up, he screams at the surveillance camera that the cook is a two-man job, refusing to continue working until Jesse returns. Tyrus soon enters the lab and operates the forklift for Walt.
Mike makes the final pickup of the evening at another abandoned warehouse. While he's inside, a second vehicle arrives, and Jesse notices one of its occupants approaching Mike's car with a shotgun. Jesse, convinced they are about to be attacked, shifts the car into reverse, knocks the gunman to the ground, and slams into the other vehicle. He then speeds away in an attempt to lose the assailants. Jesse catches up with Mike elsewhere walking in town, picks him up, and explains what went down outside the warehouse.
The following day, Jesse returns to the superlab. He tells Walt that he had spent the day guarding Mike, bristling when Walt makes light of the notion. Meanwhile, Mike and Gus rendezvous outside Los Pollos Hermanos. It is revealed that the attack at the warehouse was staged by Gus himself as a means of testing Jesse, who reacted exactly as Gus planned.
That night, Walt, Skyler, and Walt Jr. visit the Schraders for dinner. Discussion soon turns to the Gale Boetticher case; assuming that he was "Heisenberg", Hank states that Gale was a genius. A tipsy Walt, his pride challenged at the idea of someone else taking credit for his work; to Skyler's disbelief, he dismisses Gale's notebook as "simple rote copying... of someone else's work" and muses that Heisenberg may still be at large. The following morning, Hank warmly greets Marie and tells her that he's resumed looking into the Boetticher case. Looking through crime scene photos from Gale's apartment, he notices a napkin from Los Pollos Hermanos with some letters and numbers inked at the bottom.
When Walter White walks into Los Pollos Hermanos to see Gustavo Fring about the location of Jesse Pinkman, there is a poster that can be seen on the wall near the door showing an award the restaurant received for “ABQ Votes! - Best Burrito 2010 - Thank You!” at minute: 2:25. However, in the lore of Breaking Bad, this episode is estimated to have taken place in 2009 (June 18–20, 2009).
When Mike Ehrmantraut is driving Jesse Pinkman in a car through the desert at the beginning of the episode, you can see a camera and a guy behind it shooting the scene at the bottom right hand corner of the screen (undearneath the wind turbine). This can be seen at minute: 8:57 and indicates that the final result of this scene was meant to be more "zoomed in" during the editing process in order to cut out the cameraman, but this was never corrected before the episode aired.
On a remote highway, Cartel gunmen ambush a Los Pollos Hermanos truck, similar to their previous assault. However, instead of shooting up the truck like before, they lock the guards in by barring the rear doors, use a hose to redirect the exhaust into the truck's ventilation system, then floor on the gas pedal. The gunmen eat the dead driver's lunch as the guards suffocate from carbon monoxide fumes. Afterwards, the gunmen enter the truck and take a single marked bucket of fry batter.
"I am not in danger, Skyler. I am the danger."
At the White residence, Skyler reads up on the Gale Boetticher case and repeatedly listens to Walt's voicemail message, finally realizing its meaning. When he awakens, she questions him about Gale's murder and the people he works for, interpreting his comments to Hank the previous night as a cry for help. Walt, annoyed, rejects Skyler's suggestion that he go to the police to obtain protection. When she asks him to "admit you're in danger", Walt turns on her and angrily states that he is an indispensable part of a lucrative drug business; stating that "I am the danger" and remarks that when someone gets shot opening their door, he is the one who knocks. Skyler is left stunned with the realization of who Walt is and what he's capable of. Walt later offers an apology, only to realize that Skyler has left the house with Holly.
Walt goes to the car wash alone to formally transfer ownership from Bogdan. Bogdan mockingly says that Walt is not ready to run the business and insultingly recommends that he should fetch his wife to do it instead. When Bogdan wants to retrieve the first dollar he ever made (hanging in a frame on the wall), Walt spitefully insists he leave it behind. Bogdan storms out of the car wash. Walt uses the dollar to buy a can of soda, relishing the moment.
As they sit in a diner, Mike notices that Jesse's hands are shaking and asks if he's okay. Jesse indirectly tells him he is in withdrawal, which causes Mike to offer his dinner to Jesse. Shortly after, Mike receives a phone call, leaves some money and leaves to attend to something. Jesse offers to go along but Mike leaves him behind.
Over breakfast the following morning, Walt Jr. assumes that his parents aren't talking because of Walt's "gambling addiction" and tries to excuse his actions as being equal to an illness; Walt pointedly counters that they are the result of his own choices. On the way to school, Walt decides to take a detour and buy a car for his son. Walt Jr. cheekily suggests that his father buy him a brand-new Dodge Challenger if he wants to "buy him off", drawing his attention to a nearby billboard.
Outside the laundry, Walt questions Jesse about his errands with Mike, insisting that they don't make any sense. Jesse, however, is gratified at being seen as useful by Gus' organization, telling Walt that maybe he's not "a loser" after all. Walt realizes that the robbery attempt on Mike was a setup, but Jesse assumes that Walt is trying to minimize his accomplishment. Walt comes to another realization: since he can't get rid of Walt without disrupting his operation, Gus is trying to drive a wedge between him and Jesse. Jesse doesn't want to hear it and heads into the superlab to begin cooking.
Halfway through cooking, Jesse receives a phone call and heads out on another errand with Mike, leaving Walt to clean up by himself. Walt defiantly goes upstairs and pays three Spanish-speaking women laundry workers to help clean the lab. Walt raises his coffee to Gus' surveillance camera with a smile while the women scrub the lab equipment.
Skyler drives to the Four Corners, a monument marking where the borders of New Mexico, Arizona, Utah, and Colorado intersect. At the point where the four states meet, she flips a coin; it lands in Colorado. She frowns, flips again, and again it lands in Colorado. Using her foot, Skyler drags the coin from Colorado to New Mexico. She looks at Holly, picks up the coin and gets back in her car.
Mike and Jesse waiting outside a junkie's house
Back in Albuquerque, Jesse and Mike drive up to a house in which the occupants, all meth addicts, are selling three pounds of blue meth that they didn't get from Gus. Mike wants to stake out the place until someone leaves, but Jesse decides to infiltrate the house. After getting the door slammed in his face, he takes a shovel from the trunk and begins digging in the house's front yard. Soon one junkie approaches him and asks why he is digging; Jesse hands over the shovel and asks him to take over. With the first junkie preoccupied, Jesse enters the house and is confronted by a second junkie armed with a shotgun. When the junkie is distracted, Jesse knocks him out with a nearby bong. Mike retrieves the stolen Pollos fry batter bucket; words in Spanish are written on the lid.
As Walt walks out of the superlab with the three laundry workers, Tyrus approaches them and takes the women away. Tyrus claims he is putting them on a bus back to Honduras. Feeling guilty, Walt tells him to have Gus blame him instead of the women; Tyrus assures him that he does.
That night, Mike and Jesse are again eating at the diner when Gus enters; he sits at the booth while Jesse waits outside. Mike informs Gus that the intent of the truck robbery was to send a message, recommending that he get ten or fifteen men and retaliate immediately. Instead, Gus wants to set up a meeting between himself and the Cartel. Before leaving, he asks how Jesse did that day. Outside, he tells Jesse that he heard that he could handle himself.
Skyler returns home to see that Walt went through with buying a Dodge Challenger for Walt Jr. She is displeased with the reckless purchase, telling Walt that the car directly contradicts the story they're supposed to be following and demanding that it be sent back the next day. Walt says he only wished to do something nice for his son, insisting that he's only protecting the family, to which Skyler replies: "Someone has to protect this family from the man that protects this family." She takes Holly to her room, leaving Walt sullen and speechless.
In the very beginning of this episode, there is a production error. When The Cartel thugs are opening the back of the Los Pollos Hermanos truck to retrieve the containers, the angle at which the truck is parked changes between shots. When the camera is shot from inside of the truck, the truck is parked at a 45 degree angle to the road. But in outside shots for the same scene, the truck is parked parallel to the road. This could imply that both sequences (inside and outside) where captured at a different time during production.

In his living room, Jesse plays a first-person-shooter video game in which he fires a gun at charging mutants, seeing flashes of Gale's murder. Distracted and disturbed, Jesse dies in the game. He catches his breath. The memory fades, and he restarts.
Walt looks at the explosion of the Challenger
At the car wash, Walt complains about the restocking fee the dealership is charging to take back the Dodge Challenger. Skyler pleads with him to return the car without making a scene. Instead, he drives to an empty parking lot and speeds around recklessly, burning donuts into the asphalt until the car runs aground on a parking block. Walt gets out, sets the car on fire and casually calls for a taxi as he sits down to watch it burn.
Later, Walt slumps in a chair in Saul's office while Saul handles the fallout from the "joy ride." Walt admits that the pressure of dealing with Gus is getting to him, and asks whether Saul can put him in touch with hit men. Saul points out that any gun-for-hire would likely know Mike and have to outmaneuver him. Walt tells Saul that he tried to kill Gus himself but couldn't get near him.
As Jesse is repainting his graffitied/damaged walls, Walt visits his house and asks how close he has become to Gus. Jesse remarks, "He said he sees something in me." Walt reminds him that Gus tried to kill them both, killed Victor and lied about not targeting children the day Andrea's brother Tomás was shot — in other words, he is making a case for Jesse to take action. Annoyed with his pestering, Jesse tells Walt that he will kill Gus.
The next day, Marie visits the car wash and tells Skyler that Hank's therapy and spirits have improved. Walt sneaks $274,000 in drug money past them hidden in pallets of soda. After Marie leaves, Skyler and Walt regroup. Skyler is stunned to realize that Walt's yearly income is more than $7 million, telling him that it's too much to launder. Walt coldly reminds her that this is a problem she wanted to solve; Skyler reminds him she wanted none of their present situation. She isn't pleased, but packs Walt's cash into the safe and mulls things over.
In the superlab, out of the surveillance camera's view, Walt cooks a batch of ricin. He visits Jesse's house that night and hands him the ricin, instructing Jesse to slip it into Gus' food or drink. Jesse conceals the slim ricin vial inside a cigarette that he hides in his pack. The following day, Walt Jr. takes Skyler's car and drives Hank to Los Pollos Hermanos. There, Hank chats briefly with Gus, who recognizes him from his charity work with the DEA and replenishes Hank's soda free of charge. Hank slips the cup into an evidence bag and stashes it under his passenger seat.
Mike and Jesse at the factory farm
Mike and Jesse drive to the Pollos factory farm. Inside the office trailer, while Mike discusses security arrangements with Gus, an indecisive Jesse holds the pack containing the ricin cigarette. Mike startles Jesse by offering him a loaded gun. Three Cartel members arrive at the farm, with only one, Gaff, talking to Gus personally. Gus offers $50 million to the Cartel in return for ending their partnership. Gaff replies that Gus knows what the Cartel wants and bluntly tells him that this is not a negotiation. As the Cartel members leave, Jesse contemplates shooting Gus in the back with the gun Mike gave him, but ultimately decides against it. On the drive back to town, he asks Mike what Gus sees in him.
That evening, Jesse attends his Narcotics Anonymous support group meeting and indirectly bares his soul about killing Gale, telling a story about a fictitious "problem dog" he put down. Another addict criticizes Jesse for animal cruelty, but the group leader cautions the group not to judge. The dam finally breaking, Jesse asks why not, admitting that he's really at the meetings only to sell meth to the other members. The following day, in the superlab, Walt asks Jesse's progress of the assassination attempt. Jesse lies and says he hasn't seen Gus.
Gus Fring's fingerprints are found at Gale's apartment
Meeting at the DEA office with Gomez and ASAC George Merkert, Hank hypothesizes that Gale was Heisenberg's former cook. The numbers scribbled on the Los Pollos Hermanos napkin from Gale's apartment, he explains, were for an industrial air-filtration system that Gale took delivery on. By coincidence, its manufacturer is owned by a German conglomerate called Madrigal Electromotive, Pollos' parent company. Hank theorizes that a vegan like Gale wouldn't eat at a chicken restaurant, and further that he'd only go to Pollos for a meeting, perhaps with Gus. Hank also questions gaps in Gus' personal history. Pausing for effect, he reveals photos of a fingerprint on his soda cup and prints from Gale's apartment, both of which belong to Gus.
In a flashback to the period following Hank's shooting, Walt confronts Gus at the hospital while Mike slips away, unnoticed, after murdering Leonel Salamanca. Later, at the nursing home, a seething Hector is watching news coverage of the shooting when Gus pays a visit. Gus props himself on a chair opposite Hector and details the Cousins' deaths, as well as that of Juan Bolsa, with sadistic glee. Gus leaves a silently raging Hector behind with a patronizing pat on the knee.
In the present, Walt visits an oncology clinic and sits in a waiting room with another patient, who tries to commiserate with him. Walt dismisses the young man's suggestion that cancer has put the man's life on hold, insisting that he should live life on his own terms. Later, in the superlab, Gus watches Walt's every move through the security camera feed; despite his vehemence, Walt's not in charge of anything right now.
The DEA questions Gus
The Albuquerque Police and the DEA summon Gus to police headquarters, where he notices an identikit sketch of Victor on a bulletin board. Hank, Gomez, ASAC Merkert and Sgt. Tim Roberts of the APD present Gus with the fingerprint evidence putting him in Gale's apartment. Gus tells them that Gale was previously given a chemistry scholarship, and claims that Gale invited him to the apartment to propose a vague investment opportunity that Gus declined. Hank presses further, asking why no record of Gus exists in his purported home country of Chile. Gus is caught by surprise, but tells him that the Pincohet regime were terrible at recordkeeping; he assures Hank that he will locate the documentation.
After Gus departs, Hank's colleagues tell him that they feel inclined to believes Gus' story. Hank concedes that Gus put on a good performance, but wonders why a supposed law-enforcement booster didn't come forward sooner with information about a murder case he's been clearly aware of; he is clearly not satisfied.
Saul visits Andrea and delivers cash from Jesse. Afterward, in Saul's car, Jesse asks after her son, Brock. Saul encourages Jesse to check on them himself. Meanwhile, at the White residence, Skyler conceals cash in vacuum-sealed bags of clothes and hangs them in her closet. The weight of the bags quickly sags, then snaps, the support rod. Desperate for a solution, she stashes the bags in the house's crawl space. That night, over dinner with the Schraders, Walt informs his family that he is still in remission. Marie mentions that Hank met with top DEA people about something. Hank changes the subject and asks Walt to drive him to a mineral show the next day. Walt, piqued by Marie's disclosure, agrees.
Hank and Walter at Los Pollos Hermanos
The next day, Hank admits there's no mineral show and instead directs Walt to the Los Pollos Hermanos parking lot. He tells Walt that he suspects Gus is a major drug distributor, and to prove it, he wants Walt to plant a GPS tracker in the wheel-well of Gus' car. While Hank gives instructions to an apprehensive Walt, Mike pulls up beside Walt's Aztek and stares him down. After failing to dissuade Hank, Walt reluctantly exits his car. He approaches Gus' vehicle and drops to his knee, but doesn't plant the device. He then walks into Pollos, where Gus greets him at the counter. Walt clumsily informs Gus of what's happening and says he didn't plant the tracker, but Gus tersely tells Walt to do it. He returns to the parking lot, drink order in hand, and plants the tracker. Hank is puzzled by Walt's inept bungling.
Walt returns to the superlab and addresses Gus through the surveillance camera, insisting that Hank has no hard evidence and that no harm should come to him. Later, Walt visits Jesse's house and tells him that Gus must be killed this week, preferably tonight. Jesse tells him that no meetings with Gus have been scheduled. When he briefly steps away, Walt surreptitiously reads an incoming text message on Jesse's cell phone about a canceled meeting. When Jesse returns, Walt informs him he probably has a call; then waits to check whether Jesse will tell him the truth. When Jesse dismisses the call as nothing important, Walt is silently displeased with the deception.
The next day, Mike calls Gus and reports to him that neither the DEA or the APD consider him a suspect in Gale's murder; Hank is operating completely on his own. Mike also says that he can't find anything about Gus prior to 1989, which means that it is unlikely Hank can either. There is a danger, however, that Hank might be watching when the Cartel makes a move against Gus, which could result in a "perfect storm". Gus thanks him and says he will be in touch. Gus later removes the tracker from his car and puts it inside a newspaper dispenser near the restaurant. He then drives to the nursing home, where he informs Hector that he has defied the Cartel's ultimatum and that Hank is looking into his past.
Gus and Max in 1989
The narrative shifts to 1989. Gus and his partner, Max Arciniega, sit next to a pool at a lavish hacienda in Mexico. Hector walks out, urinates in the pool next to them, and otherwise disrespects Gus and Max in front of Bolsa. Don Eladio Vuente—the Cartel boss—strides out and compliments Gus and Max on their delicious chicken. His demeanor changes, however, when he confronts the men for apparently selling drugs in his territory. Speaking on Gus' behalf, Max tells them that Gus has used his knowledge of chemistry to make a much superior product to what Eladio is used to seeing, and offers him the opportunity to distribute their product. Despite seemingly liking the idea, Eladio is angered by Gus' perceived disrespect. As Max speaks in his defense, Hector suddenly shoots him through the head. Hector and Bolsa push Gus to the ground, forcing him to look into Max's dead eyes. Eladio tells Gus that he remains alive only because the Don knows who he really is.
Back in the present, Gus leans in close to Hector, who refuses to look at Gus. Gus leaves the nursing home as Hector silently fumes in his chair.

In a flash-forward, we hear heavy breathing and see a broken pair of eyeglasses on the floor. Blood drips onto the floor and on to a familiar pair of Wallabee shoes. A man's hand struggles to pick up the glasses. Upon retrieving them, he slowly stumbles away.
Hank and Walt view the GPS data
Walt drives Hank to Los Pollos Hermanos. Hank senses Walt's anxiety and attempts to lighten the mood. Walt retrieves the GPS tracker from Gus' car but refuses to enter the restaurant this time. Back at the Schrader residence, Hank curses when the tracker's data reveals that Gus only made trips between home and Los Pollos Hermanos. Leaving Hank's house, Walt spots Tyrus, who has been following them. He pulls up to Tyrus' car and calls 9-1-1 to report a suspicious man in the neighborhood, forcing Tyrus to leave.
Outside the laundry, Walt is mildly taken aback when Jesse says that he has already started the cook. Walt bums a cigarette and sees the ricin still in Jesse's pack. Jesse insists that he still intends to poison Gus, but Walt silently doubts his truthfulness. That evening, Skyler calls Walt from the car wash and reports that the "profits" are so good that Walt could begin preparing an exit strategy from his "second job". Walt, however, knows that there is no way out as long as Gus is alive.
The next morning, Hank calls Walt and proposes that they drive out to what he believes is Gus' meth distribution center. Knowing that Hank means the Los Pollos Hermanos factory farm, Walt feigns illness and convinces him to delay the trip; he then calls and warns Mike. At the factory farm, Mike directs Jesse and other operatives to hide all evidence of their distribution.
Meanwhile, at the car wash, Skyler makes false purchases between actual customers to help account for the extra money Walt is giving her. Ted shows up and informs Skyler that the IRS is auditing his business. As his company's bookkeeper of record, Skyler realizes that a criminal investigation would permit agents to monitor her mail and phone calls, and probably open the books at the car wash—a disaster across the board.
Gus standing before the Cartel's sniper
Back at the farm, Jesse muses to Mike about the potential fallout that offing Hank could give, given his connections to both Walt and the DEA. Outside, a sniper suddenly kills one of Gus' men in front of Jesse. Mike tackles Jesse to the ground and shoves him to cover behind a metal shack. Hearing the commotion, Gus walks outside and straight toward the gunfire as bullets pelt the ground around him. He defiantly raises his arms and stands in plain view. The sniper, Gaff, stops shooting and smirks.
That night, Gus receives a call in his office at Los Pollos Hermanos. Mike and Jesse arrive at the superlab to dispose of the shooting victim's body. Walt launches into a diatribe against Gus, whom he assumes ordered the man dead as either punishment or a message. Mike warns him against ever calling the police on one of his men again. Outside the laundry, Jesse asks why Gus did what he did at the farm. Mike explains that he knew the Cartel won't kill him because they need his distribution system. Jesse takes this to mean that he and the rest of Gus' operatives are open season. Mike suggests that he talk to Gus directly about any questions he has.
Skyler and Ted Beneke at the IRS building with Agent Picarus
The next day, Ted is being interviewed at the IRS building by an agent, James Picarus. Ted fumbles his way through his audit until Skyler unexpectedly appears. Dressed in a revealing outfit and obfuscating stupidity, she explains Ted's unreported income: she didn't record electronic payments because there wasn't a physical check. Picarus buys the act. Outside, Skyler tells Ted pay the back all the taxes and penalties.
That evening, Jesse visits Gus' house. While Gus is cooking, Jesse stands next to a pot of stew with the ricin cigarette in hand but can't bring himself to go through with it. Over dinner, Gus agrees to address Jesse's concerns, but only after he answers if he can cook Walt's formula. Jesse accuses Gus of befriending him under false pretenses so that Jesse can take over after Walt is killed; he says that if he kills Walt, he will have to kill him too. Gus calmly responds that is not what he meant, saying that he needs Jesse's help to prevent an all-out war with the Cartel.
Jesse asking for Walter's help
Unable to sleep, Skyler looks pensively at the bags of money under the house. The following day, Walt removes a GPS tracker that he has planted on Jesse's car. He examines the data at his apartment, learning about the trip to Gus' house. Meanwhile, Jesse leaves a message on Walt's voicemail that he has something important to tell him.
Walt drives to Jesse's house, where Jesse in a panic announces that Gus wants him to travel to Mexico and teach Walt's formula to Cartel chemists. Fearing that he'll fail and be killed, he begs Walt to coach him. Walt asks several times if Jesse has seen Gus, which he guiltily denies. Walt then grabs the cigarette pack out of Jesse's pocket and finds the ricin still there. Walt then produces the tracker and tells him he knows how long Jesse was at Gus's house. Jesse is furious that Walt was tracking, while Walt argues that Jesse has betrayed him. The confrontation escalates into a brutal physical fight. Jesse eventually gains the upper hand, pinning Walt to the floor and punching him in the face, breaking his glasses. When the fight ends, Jesse tells Walt to get out of his house and never come back.
Jesse, Mike, and Gus stand together out in the desert. After a long period of silence, the sound of a single-engine plane can be heard. It lands nearby and they board the plane. Jesse's anxiety is palpable as the plane takes off.
At the White residence, it's Walt Jr.'s sixteenth birthday. Unable to reach Walt, Skyler surprises Junior with Chrysler PT Cruiser parked in the driveway. Though underwhelmed, Junior politely thanks his mother, which quietly disappoints Skyler. Meanwhile, Ted visits Saul's office and is informed by Saul that his long-lost "Great-Aunt Birgit" from Luxembourg has left him $621,552.33—almost precisely the amount of his debt to the IRS. Ted insists he knows nothing about a great-aunt, but on hearing the amount of inheritance is all too happy to ignore the details and keep mum.
Gus, Mike, and Jesse are taken to the superlab
In Mexico, Jesse, Mike, and Gus sit blindfolded as they are driven to the Cartel's superlab. The lab's chief chemist, Benicio, takes an instant dislike to Jesse, and maligns him when it becomes apparent that he doesn't know how to synthesize phenylacetic acid, a basic ingredient. Jesse takes charge, telling Benicio that if he wants to make a superior product, he has to do it Jesse's way. He also criticizes the lab's dingy conditions and, channeling Walt, announces that no cooking will take place until all contaminants have been eliminated. As the lab's staff begin cleaning the place, Gus and Mike are quietly impressed with how Jesse is handling himself.
Walter Jr. meets with his dad
Junior drives to Walt's apartment and rings the doorbell. Walt initially doesn't respond until his son leaves a voicemail message threatening to call 9-1-1. His face still battered from his fight with Jesse, Walt opens the door in his underwear and lets Junior in. After lying to his son that his injuries were the result of a fight that came out of his "gambling addiction", Walt breaks down in tears. Junior comforts Walt and takes him to bed. As he drifts back to sleep, he mistakenly calls his son "Jesse."
At the Cartel superlab, workers observe and videotape Jesse as he begins the cook alone, lasting all night. The following morning, Benicio analyzes the finished product in the gas chromatograph. After a tense few moments, the batch tests 96.2 percent pure. Jesse is ecstatic with relief; while his product is not as pure as Walt's (99%), it is still superior to the Cartel's. To Jesse's alarm, however, he is told that he will now be effectively sold into servitude for the Cartel and abandoned in Mexico.
Saul visits the car wash and shows Skyler a credit report indicating that Ted leased a new Mercedes-Benz three hours after receiving Walt's money. He won't be able to pay the income tax bill in full—and clearly wasn't going to do so anyway.
Walt shares the story of his father
Meanwhile, Walt wakes up and sees that Junior spent the night on the sofa. Apologizing for his behavior, Walt details how he witnessed his own father wasting away from Huntington's disease; he states that he doesn't want his son to remember him in a similar manner. Junior disagrees, saying that that "bad way" to remember him would be "the way you've been this whole last year." Once Junior leaves, Tyrus, who was parked nearby, pulls into Walt's driveway and asks him if there's somewhere he should be.
Skyler goes to Beneke Fabricators and demands that Ted explain his lavish spending. Skyler argues that he should use the money given to him to pay his tax bill. When Ted stubbornly responds that his inheritance is his to spend as he pleases, Skyler blurts out that she was the one who gave him the money.
¡Salud!
Back in Mexico, Mike, Jesse and Gus visit Don Eladio's hacienda; Gus stands next to the pool where his partner Max was murdered years earlier. Gus opens a vial and swallows a pill, which seems to have no immediate effect. Jesse complains to about being left in Mexico, but Mike promises that either they are all going home or none of them are. After being introduced to Jesse, Eladio spots a gift box Gus brought along which contains a bottle of Zafiro Añejo tequila. He has a waiter pour shots for everyone except Mike, Gaff, and (after prompting from Gus) Jesse. Poised for a toast, Eladio warily waits for Gus to drink first; Gus does so as a show of good faith. Eladio and his capos follow suit.
The entire Cartel is poisoned
Some time later, Gus asks to use the bathroom. Once inside, Gus lays a towel in front of the toilet, kneels, and very calmly forces himself to vomit. Meanwhile, Eladio becomes physically unsteady while each of his capos begin to drop dead. Gaff moves to assist Eladio, but Mike slips in from behind and garrotes Gaff. Gus tidies up and leaves the bathroom, stepping out to confront Eladio next to the pool. Realizing that Gus has poisoned him, Eladio lunges at him but collapses into the pool, dead. Jesse pulls a gun from one of the deceased capos while Mike removes Eladio's necklace from his corpse.
Gus begins to falter, the antidote pill he took earlier not counteracting all of the poison. As Mike and Jesse draw their weapons, Gus musters the strength to shout that Eladio and his capos are all dead. Unsure that this will prevent a shootout, Mike and Jesse prop up Gus and proceed through the house as the staff flee with piles of cash in hand. In the driveway, Jesse finds a car with keys in it, and Mike eases Gus inside. Seconds later, Mike is shot in the stomach. Jesse wheels around and fires multiple rounds at the gunman, killing him. With Gus and an injured Mike in the car, Jesse jumps into the driver's seat and floors it out of the compound.
Other than Gaff, the 11 men standing directly behind Eladio cannot be identified through dialogue or the screenplay

At a makeshift hospital inside an abandoned warehouse in Mexico, doctors and nurses hastily prepare medical equipment until a phone call prompts them to wheel out a stretcher. A Cadillac sedan races toward them and screeches to a halt. The staff rush an unconscious Gus into the tent, leaving Jesse to tend to a severely injured Mike. In the tent, the staff focus on saving Gus from his self-induced poisoning. Jesse begs for them to help for Mike, but the lead doctor, Barry Goodman, replies that Gus "pays his salary".
Walt and Tyrus in the superlab
In the superlab, Walt cooks another batch of meth alone while being closely monitored by Tyrus, who refuses to answer his questions about Jesse and Hank. Later, Walt and Hank sit together in Walt's car, watching the Los Pollos Hermanos factory farm. Hank mentions a big Cartel-related incident in Mexico, which heightens Walt's concern for Jesse. Hank brings up Walt's face, which is still injured after his fight with Jesse, assuming that it is relating to his purported gambling.
Back in Mexico, Mike is asleep after receiving a blood transfusion. The whole scenario was planned out from the beginning, with the doctors methodically prepared with the medical history and correct blood types for Gus, Mike, and Jesse. Dr. Goodman says that Mike will need at least a week of rest before he can travel. Gus tells Jesse he'll send for Mike later, and they set off to leave without him. During the six-mile walk to the Texas border, Gus congratulates Jesse on how he handled the situation and says he has proved he can run the superlab on his own. Jesse insists that he won't cook if Walt is killed.
At the White residence, Skyler receives a voicemail from Ted, saying that he can't take her money. At his house, Ted gives Skyler a check for the full amount she gave him previously, but she insists that he pay the IRS instead. Skyler knows that a potential IRS audit threatens to unravel Walt's criminal activities and her role in them but is unable to tell Ted why he must comply. Ted says the amount she gave him isn't enough to save his life from ruin anyway, which Skyler interprets as a threat to extort her. Distressed after the meeting, Skyler calls Saul for help.
Gus and Jesse visit Hector at the nursing home. Gus gloats about murdering Don Eladio and the other capos in the Cartel, placing Eladio's necklace into Hector's pocket. He further points to Jesse as the man that shot his grandson, Joaquin, during their escape. As Hector's eyes fill with tears of rage and sadness, Gus reminds him that he is the only remaining Salamanca left. His revenge for the death of Max almost complete, he asks Hector once again if he'll look him in the eye. Hector steadfastly refuses but can't hide being visibly crushed. Gus walks out triumphant.
The collision between the vehicles
Walt sees Tyrus watching the Schrader residence as he picks up Hank. However, Hank unexpectedly asks Walt to go to the industrial laundry where the superlab is hidden; he has uncovered multiple connections between Gus, the laundry, Los Pollos Hermanos, Madrigal Electromotive and Gale Boetticher, realizing that the laundry is an ideal spot to hide a meth lab. In a total panic, Walt drives past the laundry's entrance and deliberately causes a collision by turning into oncoming traffic.
At the Schrader residence, Hank tells the family that he has ordered a new car with hand controls, which will allow him to drive unassisted. Walt is concerned at this new development. Skyler receives a call from Saul, who informs her that he will dispatch Huell and Kuby to deal with Ted. The two visit Ted at his home and coerce him into writing a check to the IRS for $617,226.31, telling him they will remain at his house for the entire weekend until the check clears. When Ted tries to flee, he trips over a rug and crashes headfirst into a kitchen island, breaking his neck. Huell and Kuby return to Saul and tell him that the check has been mailed and that Ted's accident was an "act of God" beyond their control.
Walt returns to work inside a cart full of dirty laundry. Although he took four days off due to the accident with Hank, he soon discovers that someone else was cooking in the lab during that time. That evening, Jesse is hanging out at his house with Andrea and Brock when Walt shows up. Walt implores an irate Jesse to not cook on his own, pointing out that he'll be killed if rendered unnecessary. Jesse angrily points out that the last time he came to Walt for help, he wished him dead. When Jesse goes back inside, Tyrus appears and uses a taser to subdue Walt.
The following day, a bound and hooded Walt is taken to meet with Gus in the desert. Gus tells Walt he is fired, forbidding him from coming near Jesse or the laundry again. Walt deduces that Jesse is preventing Gus from eliminating him, but Gus replies that he will come around. In the meantime, Gus now has no choice but to deal with Hank, warning Walt that he will kill his entire family if he interferes. Afterward, Walt frantically rushes to Saul's office and demands the phone number for the man who can make his family disappear. Saul tells him that he will need to pay extra due to being a high-risk client, paying upwards of $500,000. Walt asks Saul to give him a one-hour head start and warn the DEA that Hank's life is in danger.
Walt searches for the money
Walt rushes home and enters the crawl space to retrieve the money, only to discover that a large sum of the cash is missing. A frightened Skyler enters the meter room and peers down at Walt, who demands to know where the money went. She nervously admits that she gave the money to Ted. Walt lets out a violent scream and begins to cry, but his tears abruptly turn into maniacal laughter. Marie then calls, panicking after hearing from the DEA that Hank is being targeted. Skyler takes the call while Walt remains in the crawl space, staring aimlessly.

Walt and Skyler frantically pack their family's belongings. As DEA agents arrive to take them into protective custody at the Schrader residence, Walt tells Skyler that the hitman is after him and that his presence will only make the situation more dangerous. Skyler reluctantly leaves him behind as she takes Holly to her sister's.
Walt sits next to the pool, his revolver at his side, anticipating the worst. He mulls over his options, spinning the gun three times on its side as he does so. The first two times the barrel of the gun stops pointing at Walt, while the third points at a nearby potted plant. Walt continues his musings in sullen silence. Meanwhile, at the Schrader residence, Hank tells Gomez that his pursuit of Gus has resulted in the death threat. Gomez reluctantly agrees to investigate.
Jesse and Tyrus in the superlab during Gomez's investigation
Gomez arrives at the laundry and talks the foreman into letting him search the facility. When the foreman agrees, Gomez brings out a dog to sniff out the place, to no avail. Beneath the laundry, Jesse shuts off the lab equipment and waits silently with Tyrus. Gus calls Jesse and tells him that Walt is behind this development. Jesse sympathizes, but again refuses to cook if Walt is harmed. Gus answers that he will carry out an appropriate retaliation and hangs up.
After Gomez leaves, Jesse continues his cook. Afterward, a laundry truck drops him off near his car on a remote street. Jesse attempts to contact Walt without success, but finds several panicked voicemail messages from Saul. When he arrives at Saul's office, Huell, acting as Saul's bodyguard, pats him down for weapons. Saul gives Jesse the rest of his money that he had stored, and says that he is fleeing for his own safety after Gus threatened Walt's family. Elsewhere, Hank looks at Gomez' photos from the laundry, frustrated at the apparent dead end.
At home, Jesse receives a phone call from Andrea and rushes to the hospital, where Brock has been admitted to the emergency room. After he and Andrea visit him in the pediatric ICU, Jesse steps outside to smoke a cigarette. Upon noticing that his cigarette with ricin is missing, he desperately searches his cigarette pack, then runs inside to tell Andrea that Brock may have been poisoned. Andrea begs him to tell her what is going on, but he can only apologize and hurriedly runs off.
Jesse goes to the White residence and is let inside by Walt. After Walt lays his gun down, Jesse picks it up and points it at him. Walt tries to talk Jesse into lowering the gun, but Jesse is convinced that Walt has poisoned Brock and angrily demands that Walt admit why. Walt talks Jesse through the evidence, attempting to persuade him that he would have nothing to gain by killing the child. Suddenly Walt pauses, then falls into panicked laughter as he realizes that Gus has arranged this so that Jesse would kill Walt. Jesse finally lowers the gun and is convinced to help Walt kill Gus.
At the hospital, Jesse continually attempts to re-enter the ICU, but is stopped by the nurses when Andrea refuses to let him in. The next morning, Tyrus awakens Jesse and orders him to return to the superlab. When Tyrus attempts to strongarm him into moving, Jesse calls security on him. He then sends a text message to Walt, who is preparing a pipe bomb in his kitchen. Later, Tyrus approaches Jesse again and says that Gus is waiting to talk to him. Gus is at first insistent that Jesse follow the schedule but realizes that Jesse might suspect him of the poisoning and allows Jesse to wait in the hospital as Brock recovers. Jesse seemingly manages to lie to Gus that he doesn't know how Brock was poisoned.
Gus and his bodyguards walking to his car
Gus leaves the hospital and walks toward his car. From a nearby rooftop, Walt holds the detonator and watches with binoculars. As Gus nears his car in the parking garage, he suddenly pauses and looks out over the nearby skyline. He ultimately decides to walk away from the car rather than take the chance. Walt is left wondering how Gus could have possibly known about the bomb - he looks exhausted, panicked and helpless.
After Gus leaves the parking garage, Walt rushes to disarm the pipe bomb and remove it from Gus' car. He then enters the hospital and talks with Jesse, asking if he can think of any other place to catch Gus off guard. As they talk, two detectives, Kalanchoe and Munn, approach Jesse and take him in for questioning.
Jesse is questioned
At the police station, the detectives question Jesse about his hint that Brock had been poisoned with ricin; Jesse tells them he wants to call Saul. Meanwhile, Walt breaks into Saul's office as part of his own effort to contact the lawyer. Saul's secretary, Francesca, extorts him in exchange for the information.
Walt returns to home to retrieve the money but, realizing that Gus may have staked the place out, parks down the street and sends his unwitting neighbor, Rebecca, to check the house for him. His suspicions are right; shortly after she enters the house, two gunmen sneak out through the back gate. After the neighbor leaves, Walt sneaks in the rear patio door and reaches the crawl space. Getting the money, he narrowly avoids the hitmen as he exits the house.
Back at the police station, Saul enters the interrogation room and confers with Jesse. Jesse tells him to pass on the only information he thinks can help Walt — that Gus regularly visits the nursing home to torment Hector. After Saul relays this information, Walt decides to use Hector's antipathy with Gus to his advantage. He discreetly enters the nursing home to meet with Hector.
After Walt has left, Hector calls a nurse and spells out a message: "Need DEA". Later, Gomez visits Hank, who tells him that Hector will speak exclusively with him. However, at the DEA office, Hector spells out vulgar insults before Hank ends the meeting and sends him back to the nursing home. Tyrus, who is monitoring Hank, sees Hector being loaded into a van at DEA headquarters. He informs Gus that Hector has turned informant, unwittingly playing into his and Walt's trap.
After Hector is returned to the nursing home, Tyrus enters and sweeps the place for bugs and cameras. Meanwhile, the police inform Jesse that ricin was not found in Brock's blood, meaning he is free to go. However, as he is walking on the sidewalk, Jesse is tazed and abducted by two of Gus's men. Tyrus calls Gus to report both Jesse's kidnapping and Hector's apparent betrayal. He offers to take care of Hector himself, but Gus insists that, "I do this".
Gus Fring's demise
Gus is driven to the nursing home and waits in the car as Tyrus again sweeps Hector's room. Once inside, Gus berates Hector for supposedly ratting him out to the DEA. Tyrus hands a syringe to Gus, who once again challenges Hector to look at him. However, to his surprise, Hector actually does so, his gaze shifting from resignation to pure hatred. He begins ringing his bell, which Gus realizes too late is the trigger for Walt's pipe bomb, affixed under the wheelchair. Before Gus can escape, an explosion rips through Hector's room, killing Hector and Tyrus in the process. Gus survives the initial blast, but he is mortally wounded from having half of his face blown off; he walks into the corridor, adjusts his tie, and drops dead. Elsewhere, Walt sits in his rental car near the airport, listening to the radio. Upon hearing from a breaking news report that three people died in the explosion, Walt smiles and drives off.
In the superlab, Jesse prepares for another batch while being monitored by one of Gus' men. Upon hearing the lab's elevator, the henchman handcuffs Jesse to the lab equipment while he investigates. At the elevator, Walt suddenly appears and shoots both the henchman and his partner. Walt cooly enters the lab tells Jesse that Gus is dead. The two open all of the chemical containers in the lab, flooding the floor with flammable chemicals, then rig a timer to a frayed wire and leave. They wipe down the laundry machine at the lab's entrance for prints and pull the fire alarm as the chemicals ignite downstairs. The superlab explodes as Walt, Jesse, and the laundry workers flee on the surface.
"I won."
Walt and Jesse meet on the roof of the hospital parking garage. To Walt's relief, Jesse says that Brock is going to recover, and that he was poisoned by a venomous plant called Lily of the Valley; Gus did not poison him with ricin after all. Walt reassures him that Gus needed to die nonetheless. Walt calls Skyler, who is watching news coverage about the explosion with the rest of the family. When she warily asks if the explosion was his doing, he replies simply: "I won". Driving out of the parking garage, Walt passes Gus' car. Elsewhere, the camera closes in on the Lily of the Valley plant next to Walt's pool, revealing that he was the person who poisoned Brock.

